1649607	That was.. not what I was expecting this time.I have to admit, I did not approach this book this time around with what I would consider pure motives. I wasn’t in it to find things I had never found before, to revisit a personal classic to explore ideas that I had left behind for the time when I was ready to connect with them in the way that they deserved. I wasn’t even in it to re-approach situations and characters with a new perspective of age and experience.No, I needed something from this book. I can’t really think of any other way to put this, really: I was self-medicating with this book.I’ve heard this talked about in so many different ways, if perhaps not in those words, by other book lovers that I know that I can’t be the only one who does this. I came back to this book because of the transformative experience I had the last two times. I needed to be transformed. I’ve fallen into a new line of work in recent years, and I.. well, there are a lot of things that I’ve seen that I wasn’t prepared for. It’s the sort of work where I’ve felt the need to create an entirely separate daytime persona to feel brave enough and competent enough to get through the day, one that I consider separate from what I would consider myself. I come home at the end of the day and spend my time trying to reconnect with the other person I know I am and want to continue being. Some days I can even stay awake long enough to get some of her back. It isn’t that it is necessarily objectively that horrible of an experience. It’s just something where the vast majority of the time I spend during the day is spent in tasks that are for the most part not suited to my personality or many of my strengths. It also involves things that I would personally prefer not to be part of my life. I chose this job because I had become so disillusioned with the ivory tower academic path I was on that I chose the most opposite thing that I could think of to do that still fell within the realm of my skills and education. After years of being shut up inside a library going crazy inside my head, I got sick of the whole exercise as a merry-go-round of narcissistic and masochistic head games. I decided I just wanted to be useful, do anything that didn’t leave me time for that nonsense. I think that I am useful, sometimes. Sometimes I help. Sometimes I go home and don’t wake up in the middle of the night worried, or check my email at 10 pm just in case.But goddamn, it’s just… it’s ugly sometimes. It’s tiring, and isolating, and my daytime persona is taking over more and more of my time. There are things about her that I like and I think would benefit me if I could adopt them outside a situation of necessity. But there are things that I desperately want to save about the person that I can only be after work hours, which I have less and less time for. What I would gain is not worth what I would lose-I am lucky enough to have enough time with my other self banked right now to be able to say that with certainty. It’s the only fucking reason I can write this review right now- I’ve got the other one far enough at bay that I can only barely hear her screaming about what a fucking waste of time this is and what a terrible writer I am anyway and I should get back to doing something that fucking helps somebody.I reached for Possession after two weeks of working twelve hour days and only one Saturday to restore my Self. I wanted it to bring me back to myself as fast as possible, though I'm sure I didn't think that consciously. I thought, Irememberthis , only, when I was lucky enough to see it on the shelf.There are parts of this book that I have such a strong, bodily anchored memory of, that I have connected to so strongly that my body has a sense memory of what it should do at the time when I read those words. I am at the point with this book where I am not only remembering the scenes and words, I am doubling that over with my memories of myself reading them and feeding off of them, trying to make them a part of my immediate self again. It was a cycle of memory and experience, one feeding off the other to bring me back, make me disappear and make me whole again, here in the present.I went to it looking for something that I knew wasn’t going to go away: beauty. I needed some beauty in my life so badly, and this is how you know the disease of bibliophilia has really set in- books are what I turn to when I need that. I go to books to remind myself that beauty exists and it is worth something and it is a part of me, no matter how much I forget that sometimes. There are some books that we readers can no longer do this with. Before I realized what I was doing this, it was happening for years with my constant re-reads of parts of Guy Gavriel Kay novels. He was my go-to until I read his latest novel and the spell was broken- I stayed in the present and analytical- that it wouldn't work again. That was when I started to figure out what I was doing because then I tried reading my favorite novel of Arturo Perez-Reverte’s, and similarly, rather than being swept away, all I could see was the melodramatic dialogue and some fucked up coded gender politics that I considered writing an enraged essay about. Some of this, sure, is perhaps about developing better taste and letting go of adolescent attachments. But more of it is about being so far away from what I like to think of as myself that there are days where I can’t get back.Possession, though, it brought me back. It has not disappointed me yet. Parts of this book made me laugh and smile and exercise my brain in the way that I want it to be exercised, and alternately, it devoured me whole. There were parts where I came up gasping for air, and parts that I danced over lightly, barely reading, except for letting the pieces of a well-known structure fall reassuringly into place.. There were parts where the rhythm of it was enough, and parts where I read and re-read a page again and again until I felt I had understood it on many levels.But mostly, it was all so much words, words, words, paragraphs and pages put together in just that way. Unsurprisingly, perhaps, for a read that looked to suck out whatever drop of beauty it could find, it was the “first-hand” personal accounts that stood out to me the most here- the letters and the diaries- each and every one of them a record of love, desire, becoming and stone-set final regret and loss, each and every one of them filtered though the love of words, writing and books, of the seeking, narrative embroidered kind that I recognize as one of my own:”…I may write to you as I write when I am alone, when I write my true writing, which is for everyone and no one- so that in me which has never addressed any private creature, feels at home with you. I say “at home” what extraordinary folly- when you take pleasure in making me feel most unhemlich, as the Germans have it, least of all at home, but always on edge… But poets don’t want homes- do they?- they are not creatures of hearth and firedogs, but of heaths and ranging hounds. Now tell me, do you suppose what I just wrote is the truth or a lie?”“Today I laid down Melusina having come trembling to the end of this marvelous work. What shall I say of it?.... How shall I characterize it? It is like a huge, intricately embroidered tapestry in a shadowed stone hall, on which all sorts of strange birds and beasts and elves and demons creep in and out of thickets of thorny trees…”“At first Roland worked with the kind of concentrated curiosity with which he read anything at all by Randolph Ash. This curiosity was a kind of predictive familiarity; he knew the workings of the other man’s mind, he had read what he had read, he was possessed of his characteristic habits of syntax and stress. His mind could leap ahead and hear the rhythm of the unread as though he was the writer, hearing in his brain the ghost-rhythms of the as yet unwritten…”“We live in an age of scientific history- we sift our evidence- we know somewhat about eyewitness accounts and how far it is prudent to entrust ourselves to them.. So if I construct a fictive eyewitness account- a credible plausible account- am I lending life to truth with my fiction- or verisimilitude to a colossal Lie with my feverish imagination? Do I do as they did, the evangelists, reconstructing the events of the Story in after-time? Or do I do as false prophets do and puff air into simulacra?..”“My dear Friend,I may call myself your friend, may I not? For my true thoughts have spent more time in your company than in anyone else’s, these last two or three months, and where my thoughts are, there am I, in truth, even if- like the May, only a threshold-presence, by decree. I write to you now in haste- not to answer your last most generous letter- but to impart a vision…”“I have dreamed nightly of your face and walked the streets of my daily life with the rhythms of your writing singing in my silent brain. I have called you my Muse and so you are, or might be, a messenger from some urgent place..”“Oh Sir- things flicker and shift, they are indeed all spangle and sparks and flashes. I have sat by my fireside all this long evening- on my safe stool- turning my burning cheeks towards the Aspirations of the flame and the caving-in, the ruddy mutter, the crumbling of the consumed coals…”“My dear-The true exercise of freedom is-cannily and wisely and with grace-to move inside what space confines- and not seek to know what lies beyond and cannot be touched or tasted. But we are human- and to be human is to desire to know what may be known by any means…I would not for the whole world diminish you. I know it is usual in these circumstances to protest- “I love you for yourself alone”- “I love you essentially”- and as you imply, my dearest, to mean by “you essentially”, lips and hands and eyes. But you must know- we do know- that it is not so- dearest, I love your soul and with that your poetry- the grammar and stopping and hurrying syntax of your quick thought-quite as much essentially you as Cleopatra’s hopping was essentially hers to delight Antony- more essentially, in that while all lips hands and eyes resemble each other- your thoughts clothed with your words are uniquely you, came with you, would vanish if you vanished…”“I have been angry for so long- with all of us, with you, with Blanche, with myself. And now near the end, “in the calm of mind all passion spent,” I think of you again with clear love. I have been reading Samson Agoniste and came upon the dragon I always thought you were- as I was the ‘tame villatic fowl’-His fiery virtue rousedFrom under ashes into sudden flameAnd as an evening dragon cameAssailant on the perched roostsAnd nests in the order rangedOf tame villatic fowl-Is not that fine? Did we not- did you not flame and I catch fire? Shall we survive and rise from our ashes? Like Milton’s Pheonix?That self-begotten birdIn the Arabian woods embossedThat no second knows nor thirdAnd lay erewhile a holocaustFrom out her ashy womb now teemedRevives, reflourishes, then vigorous mostWhen most unactive deemedAnd though her body die, her fame survivesA secular bird, ages of lives.I would rather have lived alone, so, if you would have the truth. But since that might not be- and is granted to almost none- I thank God for you- if there must be a Dragon- that He was You…”See, that is the shit that matters. Fuck, I remember now. That is the shit that started me down this path in the first place, that lead me to make choice after choice that I thought was going there, even if it went somewhere different. That restored me again. I read the letters twice and Sabine’s diary slowly once, the sort of read that is three times over in reality. By the time I was done, my brain circuitry had slid back into it’s proper place, and I could answer the sort of basic questions that I couldn’t before I had started. I felt purged, like I had gone on a cleansing diet for a month. This is the sort of read that cleans out all the nonsense from my brain and leaves me with what is essentially important again.It is a species of addiction- it works much the same as any other. I realize this. But for now, books like Possession, books that devour me and spit me out again remade… this is what keeps me in equilibrium, and keeps the self that I very much want to keep around from disappearing. They are my guide back. I am keeping this one, along with others of its kind, on my bedside table. I have a feeling I will need them again soon.If anyone has any books to recommend that they turn to for beauty and rest, please let me know. I would love to add them to what I can only call my arsenal. Thank you.* * *ORIGINAL: I do so hate to be predictable, the girl who has victorian and victorian-wannabe shelves, and shelves for regency and romance and the-aftermath, and pretty much every other category that this would plausibly be generally shelved in (except, perhaps, pretentiousness-that's-worth-it...but we'll get to that later) but I really do love this book.I'm going to have to go even further down the disgustingly adoring path and say that this is going to be a personal classic, for me. I don't argue that it needs to be taught in classrooms or become part of a modern canon or anything like that (though I'm certainly not against the idea), but it definitely meets the most important thing for me:A different experience at every age/read- This is my second read through. The first time I read it was in 2002. I was 16 years old, and the movie was coming out. There was no way I appreciated this book beyond a few very shallow things. Why? 'Cause dude, there was a movie coming out with some of my favorite sexy people in it (Jeremy Northam and Jennifer Ehele), and duuuude it was about hot Victorians having hot sexy smart people sexy sex and their words were as hot as their hot costumes and hot modern academics (ooohmygood whoos this Aaron Eckhart, hellooo!) getting it on over books, books are so awesome... Ooh look, letters with smart people references in it that I understand, this is so cool that I get even a little of this, yay!... oh did I mention HOT VICTORIANS??... Yeah, that was about the extent of my thoughts at the time, I think. I did cry at the end, but for the most simple of reasons, something that you could cry at a freaking Hallmark special on the Lifetime channel about.Now? I am only 23, but I'm old enough to be mostly embarrassed for myself at 16 (though I still think parts of this book are smokin' sexy), and I do feel like I'm getting worlds and worlds more out of this book than I ever got back then, and I can see myself getting more and more as I grow older, as the characters do. There's so much in here that leaped off the page and spoke to me and both my every day little problems and the bigger opinions and feelings that I have about the larger things in life. And I know there are still vast things in here that I missed, things that I don't think I quite understand yet, or call bullshit at at the moment that I just know will be of comfort to me when I pick this book up again in ten years or so, in twenty years, in thirty years. And the fact that I know that I'm going to do that, that I expect my copy to wear out and that I'll have to get a new one before I die, well, that speaks volumes, doesn't it? This particular read I really attached onto the characters struggling to find out what to do with themselves, what they were worth, after the life prescribed by their parents and other authority figures ends, those characters trying to deal with what other people expect them to be as opposed to how they see themselves, creating the narrative of your own life, being your own person in a relationship, and the connections I keep making between this book and the ideas in Virginia Woolf's A Room of One's Own. There's a fascinating fight over spiritual beliefs that I don't have the headspace to deal with now, but is haunting the back of my head, and I expect to be obsessed with it the next time I read it.So, yeah, that's what the good books should do to you.There's also other things, like all the fascinating things she deals with in the book. I mean, just to rattle off a few: feminism, post-modernism, living in a post-modern world, deconstructionism, many many issues of religion and spirituality, cultural relativism and archetypes, living in a globalized world, negotiating the self in relationships, the academic life and petty infighting, etc, etc. And I do mean etc, etc, etc, because there's tons in here that I'm not even bringing up, and probably tons more that I missed. Which is why I think this book is a gold mine.Now a lot of people say that they abandon this book because they find it too pretentious, or too self-gratifying, etc. I don't really think that's the case. I think a lot of the things that could be deemed 'pretentious' are being used by Byatt to make fun of the ridiculousness of some of the characters within who are indeed pretentious. Maybe it is just the subject matter- I don't know how you avoid pretentiousness when you're writing about overeducated Victorian people with literary tendencies. It probably does tend to go to your head, the way that all works. I can see that putting people off to begin with, but if you picked up the book already knowing it was about Victorian poets and squabbling Victorian scholars then I would think you'd be prepared for that kind of thing and be able to wade through it. Are all the full length Victorian style poems she includes pretentious? Probably. But man, if I could do that, I would want to do that too. And it isn't as if they are pointless. Most of the poems are clues to the mystery, clues to the characters themselves, especially as they get longer- they're not just there to create an ambiance. Plus, we hear so much about the poems and other peoples' interpretations of them its great to actually see the real things and judge for ourselves, and fits really well into the theme about people creating their own narratives out of the past according to their present needs, and I think reflects cleverly back on the reader. For me, all of that pretentiousnes is worth it, and I find it all brilliant, that's just my response to it. I usually think agree to disagree is bullshit, but when you get into literary experimentation, I think that's the only way to come out alive.So anyway, I tore through this in four insanely obsessed days- and this on a re-read. So if you're into this kind of thing, leap right in. Leap, I tell you! It's the way to read this one.
7638108	A honking great piece of literary self gratification, a novel about writers (all novels about writers should be given a concrete overcoat), a grand excuse for A S Byatt to dazzle us with some fancy ventriloquism, and yes you can feel the throb of the author's perfervid intelligence like a lawnmower hacking away at the tough grass at the edge of the lawn but after all of that you have to come clean and say that Possession isn't worth the thinnest novelette written by Raymond Chandler or the most offhand poem by e e cummings or the most obscure B side by the Beach Boys either. A pure waste of time which I was suckered into by someone whose taste I had thought trustworthy, so that was a lesson bitterly learned.***This book breaks one of PB's commandments :- Thou shalt not write a book which is a series of SOCK PUPPETS designed entirely to impress the hoi polloi at the Hay-on-Wye Literary festival when you read bits out to them in FUNNY VOICES.
21135618	A while ago I said to myself, "I'm going to pay more attention to doing things that make me happy. So I'm going to cook more creatively and read more fantasy, because I keep forgetting I like those things."Then I started reading Possession. The happiness project got put on the back burner until I was ready to emerge from the Victorian melancholia, which placed demands on my time too great to allow for preparing meals. I never cried at this book, exactly, but I frequently wept the way a lemon meringue pie weeps when you leave it out and come back to find dots of moisture on the surface.Oh, it was beautiful, though, a book of such tangible substance that sometimes, when I was reading it while standing, I would feel as if the book were holding me up instead of the other way around. I've read and loved a couple of A.S. Byatt's short-story collections, so I knew she had a fine control of language, but Possession is on a different plane, telling the story with a multitude of voices through letters, poems, criticism, biography, and journal entries as well as the prose of the main narrative. Byatt didn't just write some poems to go in her novel, she created two major Victorian poets from whole cloth, fitted them exactly into a time and a place, and made so bold as to have a character say about one of them, "You can't understand the twentieth century without understanding him." Does that mean we can't understand the twentieth century fully, in a world where there was never a Randolph Henry Ash? This poet isn't a fictionalized Tennyson or Browning, he's a completely invented eminent Victorian. Christabel LaMotte, likewise, is something entirely new; her poems have a dash of Emily-Dickinsonian diction but with French-English, devout Christian, determinedly feminist sensibilities. I don't know if anyone calls this book a work of alternate history, but it was poignant to think about what would be different in a world that included this poetry. I wish I could visit that world, just to read the rest of Ragnarok and Melusina. The prose itself bordered on poetry, to such an extent that sometimes I had to stop to savor a rhythm. Like here: "But he had known immediately that she was for him, she was to do with him, as she really was or could be, or in freedom might have been." (I would quote more, but I've already loaned out the copy I read.)In addition to the new-old poetry, Possession has packed inside it a meditation on the arts of scholarship and biography; the most moving writing about celibacy I've ever come across; a critical work on the erotics of reading; and a half-lament, half-ode to the powers of time and memory and forgetting. And, as the cover proclaims, it is a romance--a set of entwined love stories written with impossible precision and believability. It is a book about books, but in such a generous way that nearly everything books can be about is in here. Reading something like this makes me glad that there is such a thing as literary fiction.
4324551148	A few weeks ago, I found myself smack dab in the center of a literary mystery.On November 25, 1940, F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote to his friend, Edmund Wilson. In the letter, Fitzgerald accused John Steinbeck of plagiarism.“[…] it is something else for a man of his years [Steinbeck] and reputation to steal a whole scene as he did in “Mice and Men.” I’m sending you a marked copy of Norris’ “McTeague” to show you what I mean.”Those are fighting words, Fitzgerald! Very serious allegations.In 1989, a scholar, Richard Allan Davison located Fitzgerald’s marked copy of McTeague (the one referenced in the November 25, 1940 letter). Davison stated that the book was at a rare book collection at the University of Oklahoma.Two great literary greats going at it? Get your popcorn ready because there is no way I’m staying out of it!After ordering a copy of Of Mice and Men, I needed to verify the edition of Fitzgerald’s copy of McTeague to align the page numbers with the commentary.I reach out to the library at the University of Oklahoma. They don’t have the book.Fitzgerald’s book is now missing.What to do?Where would this book likely go? My first thought: Princeton. In 1950, F. Scott’s daughter, Scottie, donated his personal writings and literary effects to Princeton. In fact, Princeton is in possession of the November 25, 1940 letter.Princeton does not have Fitzgerald’s McTeague, but, but this time, I have intrigued the Princeton librarian who said, “I did a bit of digging because I love a mystery.”Apparently, the 1989 scholar, may he rest in peace, was wrong about the librarian helping him. The librarian did not work for The University of Oklahoma but the University of Tulsa.Now, we are cooking with fire!I contact the University of Tulsa. They have the book!With the help of 3 librarians, we were able to find one lost book out of all of the books of the world!So Possession was exactly the book for this literary nerd!Possession begins with Roland Mitchell in The London Library. He is a long-time scholar of Randolph Henry Ash.While Roland is reading Ash’s copy of a book, a mysterious note falls out, sending Roland on a literary journey.He teams up with Maud Bailey, a Christabel LaMotte scholar, while the more established scholars are hot on their trail.While Possession is charming and Mortimer Cropper, the villainous American refreshing, the book is victim to 90’s writing.This was another time.Consider this quote from Philip Pullman, author of His Dark Materials:“It was 1993 when I thought of Lyra and began writing His Dark Materials. John Major was prime minister, the UK was still in the EU, there was no Facebook or Twitter or Google, and although I had a computer and could word-process on it, I didn’t have email. No one I knew had email, so I wouldn’t have been able to use it anyway. If I wanted to look something up I went to the library; if I wanted to buy a book I went to a bookshop. There were only four terrestrial TV channels, and if you forgot to record a programme you’d wanted to watch, tough luck. Smart phones and iPads and text messaging had never been heard of. The announcers on Radio 3 had not yet started trying to be our warm and chatty friends. The BBC and the National Health Service were as much part of our identity, of our idea of ourselves as a nation, as Stonehenge.”Nowadays, authors need to clip from one exquisite sound bite to the next as they are directly competing with TikTok and Netflix.And Possession was far too long winded, and most of the mediocre poetry should have been heavily edited down.Sadly, no one has been “hot on my trail” during my scholastic investigations, but tomorrow is another day……The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent):Hardcover Text – $13.77 on eBayAudiobook – Free through LibbyConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta
6798134768	Possession: A Romance is indeed a challenging read, filled with numerous names and references, along with lengthy poems in a Victorian style that is solemn and grand but difficult to digest.It wasn't until I reached page 50 that I felt truly engaged.The story itself is quite conventional and passionate, unveiling a hidden love through a letter. The remarkable aspect remains Byatt’s literary prowess and deep literary knowledge, which are profoundly impressive.I Googled a lot about this book, eager to know who the poet in the story was, and whether such a person existed in reality. But for the first time, I found that information on a book was so scarce on the all-knowing internet!There were only a few links, and I eventually found that it won the 1990 Booker Prize. It was adapted into a movie in 2002. I couldn't find the identity of Randolph Ash, nor any relevant reviews. Only in a forum did I discover that many people praised the book while agreeing it was very difficult to read.As the book progresses, it becomes more engaging, driven by the urge to uncover its mysteries, making it hard to put down. The shocking aspect of this love story is the deep sense of loneliness of Christabel, who insists on celibacy, refusing to be violated, encasing herself in layers of protective armor, and striving to preserve her lifelong reputation. She is proud, unwilling to follow common customs or bow down. Despite falling in love, she refuses to give herself up. When she becomes pregnant, she leaves without a trace, preventing our poet from finding her. Stubbornly, she doesn't even reveal her pregnancy to her cousin, with whom she lives. Despite everyone seeing her growing belly, she remains unchanged. On the day of childbirth, she chooses to face it alone, and her cousin doesn't know whether the child survives. It wasn't until the last few pages that I learned the child survived and lived with her as her niece. This girl never liked the lonely aunt, not knowing that the strange "old maid" was her mother, and even hated poetry, despite her parents being outstanding poets.What a strange story. During their lifetimes, no one besides Christabel's sister knew the child's true identity. Our poor poet Ash died with confusion and regret. His wife was also an odd person.Yes, the story is quite strange. Not until the last few pages did I understand it fully and overturn all previous assumptions. Was Ash's betrayal truly a betrayal? His wife had always refused conjugal relations, yet Ash still respected and cared for her deeply. He had no scandal except for this hidden, tragic love. In terms of a true marital relationship, wasn't Christabel more of Ash's wife?Christabel's departure was fueled by her deadly loneliness and external factors like Ash's wife and her cohabiting girlfriend's suicide. Before the discovery of these letters, all scholars assumed she was a lesbian, and her poetry was based on feminism. Ash, meanwhile, was a rational, reserved, self-talking, and obscure poet. But these letters overturned everything, and the study of their poetry would restart.Anyone's creations are profoundly influenced by personal experiences, and love is fatal in this respect.Some past people, and some in the present, study the past, and the overturning of the past destroys the present. Reconstruct, then destroy again.Exploring someone's life is challenging. Some secrets, if one wishes to hide, can be hidden for a lifetime. Autobiographies selectively hide secrets, and biographies are even less reliable. How can someone else explore another person's inner world? Wilde said that if the universe is finite, the human heart is infinite. An infinite heart, described and recorded with finite words, is an attempt to sketch and metaphorically represent.Christabel used metaphors to hide a deeply entangled love in beautiful, unique poetry. Ellen Ash (Ash's wife) used deletion to hide pain in dull diaries. Only letters taken to the grave and passionate love letters tell the true story in the underworld.3.9 / 5 stars
7834545065	A new favourite!!!
383471235	Basically, "Possession" is a (n outstanding, albeit old-fashioned) poet's "showcase." I firmly believe that poetry books are not worthy of sharing the same shelf space as works of fiction-- this is a merger of two arts, surely. The plot and the prose is only a pretext for getting all these snippets of poetry in a book! Byatt's possession of her characters is the novelty here: she has done something pretty outstanding, mainly giving both fictional historical poets true, clear voices. The poetry shines through, but it is unfortunately not to my taste. Dabbling in mythology and lore, some Gothic exotica--it doesn't totally astound. The Victorian poems are so droll, so irrelevant to the excitement of the modern day, that it's truly amazing just to see the way intellectuals "make love." (They aren't deliciously repressed nor even in the slightest interesting.)So again, I come across another highly praised (and prized) novel which is, despite all attempts at realism and Romance (an art truly left dead & buried-- but ripe for modern interpretation surely) mediocre.
61935980	I just finished reading A.S. Byatt’s novel, Possession, again for about the fourth time. It has been several years since I last read it, and I have to say that I saw it in a completely new light. It is a literary masterpiece that is exquisitely plotted and written. This time around I very carefully studied the epigraphs leading off most of the chapters and all of the beautiful poetry included in the text. I don’t know that I gave much more than a cursory glance to the poetry during previous reads. This time though, I focused on Byatt’s poetry and discovered just how much it enriched and influenced the novel’s dual plots. Regarding the epigraphs, I recommend that the reader carefully study each epigraph before reading the chapter; and then upon finishing the chapter, go back and read it again and see if you correctly figured out the true meaning of it. There are little puzzles and clues throughout the entire novel, most of them residing within the poetry sections. This is a beautiful love story, achieving a level of romantic passion, emotion, and anguish like that of Jane Austen’s Persuasion, but with the Byronic or Gothic touches of the Bronte sisters. It is clear, to me, why Byatt was awarded the Booker Prize for Possession in 1990; and that this novel is clearly destined to be a classic work of literature.
6371226409	Possession, the 1990 Booker Prize winner, is touted as a love story, but it is so much more. A story about obsession, guilt, passion, love, and the transformative power of the written word. A.S. Byatt masterfully ensnared me in the search by Roland Mitchell and Maud Bailey for the possible relationship between Randolph Henry Ash and Christabel LaMotte, two fictitious Victorian poets.Roland Mitchell is an Ash scholar and postgraduate research assistant who stumbles across the poet’s affectionate letters to a mysterious woman. With some investigative work, he thinks the unknown recipient may be LaMotte. Maud Bailey, a scholar of LaMotte who is as devoted or obsessed with this female poet as Mitchell is with Ash, is the person to share this possibly explosive discovery. Together they follow the clues that lead to the relationship and affair. But other academics in Great Britain and the U.S. want the credit for a discovery that could make them famous and forever change all Victorian poetry studies. There is nothing they will not do to make this happen.Through letters, poems, and journals Ash and LaMotte come alive. Like the characters themselves, all are composed by A. S. Byatt. It just boggles my mind. The poems are not Hallmark verses. They are finely detailed with many references and a wealth of knowledge. I frequently had to read a poem, step away and think about it, and then, reread it. Often, my less erudite mind was still foggy. Does Byatt try to prove her brilliance? I don’t think so. I believe she is just unable to dumb her writing down.The movie is very enjoyable but somewhat limited. It was like watching an advertisement for a place you have longed to visit. It makes you know visiting will reveal so much more and the experience will be deeper and include long-held memories.“Now and then there are readings that make the hairs on the neck, the non-existent pelt, stand on end and tremble, when every word burns and shines hard and clear and infinite and exact, like stones of fire, like points of stars in the dark - readings when the knowledge that we shall know the writing differently or better or satisfactorily, runs ahead of any capacity to say what we know or how. It is a sense that the text has appeared to be wholly new, never before seen, is followed, almost immediately, by the sense that it was always there. For the first, time we become fully cognizant of our knowledge.”
38679244	Brilliant literary puzzle-book, including a well-realised fictitious author loosely based on Tennyson... one of the best attempts of this kind since Pale Fire. Some people think the book is too clever by half, but what do you expect? Just as constructive to criticise Powell for including too many characters who are upper-class twits, or Proust for not making his sentences short and punchy...
1995596789	4.5“Tell your aunt,” he said, “that you met a poet.”This is not a proper review. This is just a list of the thoughts that at one point or another, during or after the reading of the book, struck me and got stuck in my head, of the peculiarities of this book that enchanted me, and of a couple things more. This list is not supposed to make sense to anyone but me, but I hope you will still be able to draw from it inspiration or motivation to rush to the nearest bookshop or library and get a copy of this magnificent book; those who have read it, instead, will surely understand many, if not all, of these points. I am sorry for this jumbled form, but I found, curiously enough, that if put in a more cohesive text these ideas make still less sense.- What possession, and of whom or what? Of the scholar by the poet, of the poet by the scholar; of the man by an idea, dream, castle in the clouds, obsession; of one lover by the other, and vice versa, platonically, carnally; of the listener, or reader, by curiosity, by the need to know what lies on the other side of the words and by the words themselves, the end of the story, how it is going to end. Intellectual possession, spiritual possession, romantic possession, sexual possession, narrative possession, and all of their nuances.- Mind and body and the places where they touch and where they do not, where they embrace each other and where they would tear each other apart, if only we’d let them. - The hatred, or disgust, we feel when we become acquainted with the tortuosity of our minds- and the fear, or disgust, we feel when we become acquainted with the physicality of our bodies.- How utterly ugly it can become –sexuality, relationships– between men and women, between partners, and how blissful.- Past and present running in parallel, in contrast and symmetrically.- The academic world, its clowns, it devotees, its treasure hunters and its novices.- Feminism, sometimes kindly and intelligently mocked, sometimes forcefully endorsed.- Literary criticism and categories, interpretation, virtuosity, ventriloquism, textual camouflage.- The tracing of sources halfway between a detective story and the research for an academic paper.- We never know the whole story. No one gets to know the whole story, ever, not even who writes it, not even who lives it, because even those who live it will only ever have their own perspective, and not other people’s. And to all stories, there is always another side, and another side, and another side.The only thing about Possession that I didn't like, or disagreed with, if you will, and therefore the only reason why this isn't a five-star reading for me, is (to do with) the arrangement of the narrative material. I found it difficult to come to care for the characters because the story progresses very slowly, not really flowing, due to the abundance of letters, academic documents and such, and also of POVs, even POVs of very secondary characters in whom the reader is, generously, only tenuously interested. I think that this, however, mostly concerns my personal taste and enjoyment of the story; rarely have I seen such a masterfully crafted piece of contemporary literature (or of any other genre you would like to place this book into).
7317220380	Яка ж розкішна книжка. Не відпускала майже ні на мить. І хочеться описати все-все-все, і без спойлерів обійтися. Тому просто скажу, якщо вам подобається розслідування таємниць в академічному сетингу на тлі написання наукових робіт і неймовірно прекрасного занудства та вгризання в кожну літерку — вам сюди! А ще тут є романи, і кохання, і життєві вибори. І різноманітні наслідки життєвих виборів.
1189092855	Artfully Told Tale of Academics, Victorian Poets and RomanceI wanted to like this book more than I actually did.Many Goodreaders really like this metafictional novel, which contains a story (and poetry) within a story. There is much to admire here.The author skillfully interweaves two time periods. One was 1987 (close to the time the novel was written), the other nineteenth century Victorian England.She not only invents two poets, but writes a lot of their poetry. The skill and brilliance involved here is astonishing.But...Most of the characters (with a couple of exceptions) left me cold.And I found both the Victorian romance and its poetry cloying, like overly sweet pastries, though I suppose this style was typical of the time.And the more contemporary romance was rather chilly.The book's title, "Possession", has many meanings. It refers to the possession of romantic love, ownership of precious objects, and the almost demonic possession that can take over those on a quest.The 1987 timeline involves a gaggle of academics. All of them are scholars of Victorian poets and writers. The author gently mocks the academics and their obsessions with ideas no one else cares about. At the same time, she makes the professors believable and very human characters.The focus of the novel are two fictional Victorian poets.One, Randolph Henry Ash, married to Ellen Ash, is considered one of the greatest poets of his time.The other, Christabel LaMotte, is less well known, primarily because she is a woman. She is also a closeted lesbian, living quietly with her lover, Blanche Glover on Mount Ararat Road in Richmond in London.Apparently LaMotte is based on real pre-Raphaelite poetess Christina Rossetti, although I much prefer Rossetti's poetry to LaMotte's. Plus their looks are different. Christina, although apparently a beautiful woman, had Italian coloring---dark hair and olive skin (orso it seems in the pictures of her). LaMotte has very fine light blonde hair (described as containing multiple shades of blonde) and fair skin.After writing each other a series of remarkable letters, which seem to be very much in the style of the time, (view spoiler)[(with only the coyest and most covert allusions to anything sexual), LaMotte and Randolph Ash have a brief affair, which wreaks havoc on almost everyone around them (particularly in LaMotte's case).Ellen Ash figures out what happened but keeps it to herself until her dying husband tells her about it many years later. (hide spoiler)]LaMotte seeks refuge with relatives on the Brittany coast. Her cousin Sabine also keeps a journal of the time.(view spoiler)[Christabel LaMotte, although clearly pregnant, disappears from her relatives' house and delivers her child in secret. No one discovers what has become of the child until years later. (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[Blanche commits suicide by jumping into the ice cold Thames River with stones sewn into her pockets. (hide spoiler)]The academics in the 1987 timeline are all experts in LaMotte, Randolph Ash, or Ellen Ash (Randolph Ash's wife), who kept a journal.Roland Michell is an unknown London scholar. He is a quiet and reserved young man. In the London library in a book by Vico (presumably Giambattista Vico, the eighteenth century Italian philosopher and historian) he accidentally stumbles on some letters of Ash. They seem to be drafts of secret love letters. Roland uncharacteristically pockets the letters. He keeps his find secret. Roland lives with Val, a woman he met in college. The live in a crumby basement room that reeks of cat urine, and Val supports Roland. Neither of them are terribly happy with the situation or with each other. Fergus, a fellow scholar, refers Roland to Maud Bailey. (Maud had a romance with Fergus). Maud is an established authority on LaMotte. (view spoiler)[ She is also related to LaMotte, although the nature of her relationship to LaMotte becomes clearer later in the book (hide spoiler)]Maud is a beautiful, cold, and extremely reserved woman. She keeps her beautiful blonde hair under a head wrap. She is also a very competent scholar. Maud gets infected with enthusiasm for Roland's quest to find out what happened between Ash and LaMotte. The two of them decide to disappear for awhile on a secret quest to find out more about the connection between Ash and LaMotte.Other scholars get involved, some at Roland and Maud's request, others simply because they "pick up the scent" of an exciting hunt.Beatrice Nest is a scholar who specializes in the journals of Ellen Ash, Randolph Ash's wife. Maud enlists her help. Beatrice is a hesitant, prudish woman who is ashamed of her large breasts and big body. She's older (over fifty?) Beatrice feels protective towards Ellen Ash. She's not sure she wants Ellen's secrets to be exposed to public scrutiny. Roland is irritated by Beatrice's slowness. Surprisingly, Maud takes to Beatrice.Leonora Stern, a feminist professor from Tallahassee, Florida, is another expert on Christabel LaMotte. She shows up unbidden at Maud's apartment, to Maud's annoyance. Leonora has heard rumors about new discoveries on LaMotte. Leonora can be obnoxious and irritating, but still she is one of my favorite characters. She is larger than life. Proudly full figured, flamboyant, omnisexual (she is mostly lesbian but seems to be open to any type of sexual partner), she is resplendent and she knows it and plays it up. She dresses in bright colors and outrageous hippie clothing. She writes about female sexuality in LaMotte's poetry. She also tends to butt in where she isn't wanted. Of course, she is one of the characters that was not included in the Hollywood movie.James Blackadder is Roland's estwhile boss. He is a dour Scot, who turns out to not be as curmudgeonly as he seems to be. Roland works for him at his so-called "Ash Factory" in the British Museum. He is another of my favorite characters. Of course, he was cut out of the Hollywood movie as well.The last professor is Professor Mortimer Cropper, the man everyone loves to hate. He curates the Stant Collection at the fictictious Robert Dale Owen University in the apparently made up town of Harmony City, New Mexico. He greedily snatches up historical objects of interest (usually curios associated with famous writers). He wants all the Randolph Ash memorabilia he can get his hands on. The other professors all loathe him. He is not above using illegal and immoral methods to get his hands on objects he wants for the Stant Collection (or for his own secret personal collection, which he is rumored to hide in his home). He is lean and lithe and drives a Mercedes, as he has inherited wealth.Other characters include Sir George Bailey and his disabled wife Joan. (Apparently they belong to another branch of Maud's family and may be distant relatives of hers); and Euan MacIntyre, a solicitor (British lawyer). While I admired the scholarship, work, and artistry involved in putting this long novel together, as I've already mentioned, I have some reservations about it.For one thing, I didn't think Ash and particularly LaMotte were terribly sympathetic characters. Christabel LaMotte wreaks havoc on literally everyone around her, and while she does express remorse for this, it seems like too little too late. Her behavior completely turns off her French cousin Sabine, who is actually a more sympathetic character than Christabel is.For another thing, I wasn't wild about the poetry of either Ash or LaMotte, although part of my problem with their writings might have been the way the audio reader, Virginia Leisham, read them.Finally, I found many of the 1987 characters to be a bit chilly, although as I mentioned, Leonora and Blackadder are colorful.Virginia Leisham's reading of the audio didn't help matters. She gave Cropper, who's from New Mexico, an inexplicable stagey Southern accent that would have been more suitable for a production of "The Glass Menagerie" than for a guy who grew up in the Southwest. She did do better with some of the other characters. Still, I think I would have preferred a different reader. I hope my review doesn't deter Goodreaders from reading "Possession". Lots of people love this book, and certainly its treatment of the Victorian poets and of (nearly) contemporary scholars of Victorian literature is fascinating.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2275610988	Вчора коли дочитувала, плакала і думала, що це найкраща книжка мого життя)) розумію, що це емоції, та все ж...Як про неї розказати в відео без спойлерів?
7784845	I picked up this book because I had seen it in a recommended reading site and then a friend said that it was really good. But... Yes, there's a but... it took me 3 tries to get past page 10. I should have known then... but (again with the 'but') I persevered... thinking that I would eventually get into it, that I would get to the meat of it. By, page 300 I felt like I was trapped. I had already invested this much time into it and felt, at that point, that I had to finish it. I'm not saying that it probably isn't a great book. I'm sure it won awards and I'm sure that the writing is considered fair, but when I pick up a book called 'Possession - A Romance', I don't know... I guess I was expecting something with a bit more passion . Maybe the fact that it had to include 'A Romance' in the title should have tipped me off. The story centers around the discovery that two fictitious 'famous' poets had an affair and thus altered the meaning of their work to the scholars that study said poets. Okay. My problem is that I never really cared about either the poets or the scholars. There were times that I thought 'Yes, here we go'. But, it fizzled. Maybe the writing is too 'proper' for me. I have no doubt that this book is beloved by many, just not me.
259343183	There have been so many reviews written about this book, by so many people much more articulate than I am, that I really don't feel I have anything new and/or brilliant to add. I will, therefore, just record my thoughts about it. I thought it was lovely. The language flows beautifully, both in the prose and the poetry sections. The story itself is intriguing, the flowering illicit romance between the poet and his poetess, and the more muted one between the scholars obsessed by them. Byatt does an excellent job of leading us into the ever-deepening waters of the mystery. It starts off as mild curiosity, and she carefully feeds the fire until it is a blazing inferno and you just HAVE to know what happens! I love how the letters reveal so much about both the characters and their deepening relationship. I did find some parts of them tedious--especially the parts about Ash's gathering of marine samples, and some of the more exhaustive description of the countryside. I daresay my impatience to find out what happens played a part in this. I thought she tied everything up wonderfully well at the end--especially the very last section, which laid to rest the anguished heartburnings I felt on behalf of Ash.I have to think that she was satirizing the world of literary criticism and academic focus on authors. It's a strange career, when you think of it. Your entire life is spent studying every detail of someone else's life. Your only achievement is your depth of knowledge about someone else's achievements. It seems rather preposterous when you really think about it. Every one of the professors whose focus of study was Ash or Christabel were (with the exception of Roland and Maud) pretty obnoxious and unlikeable in some way. They are definitely possessed by their callings, to the point where lying, cheating, and stealing become worthwhile. The title of the book was examined in a myriad of ways in the book: by the scholars, by the relationship between the poet and poetess, by the relationship between Roland and Maud, and a variety of others.I did enjoy this book, but think I may enjoy it a bit more on a second reading. I was also possessed while reading this time--by the desire to know how the mystery ends. Another reading can be a bit less feverish, perhaps.
6057424984	Este libro lo es todo para mi
7379961030	шедевр? шедевр
3325117187	He knew her, he believed. He would teach her that she was not his possession, he would show her she was free, he would see her flash her wings.Possession: A Romance was an engagingly fun read – concerning an over-the-top literary quest that often strained credulity, I had the persistent feeling that A. S. Byatt was parodying her format while somehow keeping me 100% invested – and while I ended the book feeling like I could take issue with so many of the plot points, this sense of a non-mocking parody, or po-mo irony, made me feel like I was in on the joke, and therefore more amused by it than annoyed. Interweaving two timelines, I will note that I believed in and related more to the Victorian characters than those from the present, but as the point of Possession is the interplay between them all, it seems like it could have only been written precisely as it was. For sheer entertainment value, I'm rounding up to four stars. All scholars are a bit mad. All obsessions are dangerous. In an Introduction to my edition, written by Byatt, she explains that the genesis for this book was her observation of “the great Coleridge scholar” Kathleen Coburn as she haunted the British Library and Byatt's wondering, after having given her entire life to Coleridge's thoughts, would Coburn now possess the poet, or would he possess her? To this end: Possession begins with a modern day scholar – the quiet and unremarkable Roland Michell – who is an assistant researcher looking into the life of the (fictional) great Victorian poet, Randolph Henry Ash. While examining a book that had once belonged to Ash – so sooty around the edges that it had likely never been opened since the passage of the Clean Air Acts – Roland discovers the first few drafts of a letter, written by the poet, that hint at a relationship unknown to Ash scholars. Roland is so personally galvanised by this secret knowledge that he puts the drafts into his pocket – which is completely out of character – and endeavors to investigate the mystery for a while on his own. When he discovers a chance connection and wonders if Ash's letter was written to Christabel LaMotte – a (fictional) minor Victorian poetess and writer of fairy tales, now remembered primarily by feminists and those in Women's Studies – Roland decides to visit a LaMotte scholar, the quiet and studious Maud Bailey. As Roland and Maud fill each other in on the details of their chosen subject's life and works – neither of whom had ever been of the least interest to the other – they discover connections that had never been recognised before; and as they travel together to where the clues lead them, Roland and Maud unearth evidence that will force the academic world to reevaluate the meanings of, and inspirations for, each of the poet's major works.Early on, Byatt describes Ash's reputation for erudite and muscular poetry, quotes they who dismiss LaMotte as the spinster “fairy poetess”, but as the narrative proceeds, Byatt judiciously reveals their work through intermittent excerpts; knowledge of the poets' characters (and the true value of their work) revealed to the reader at the same pace Roland and Maud are discovering new information and explaining to one another how it all fits into what is known about their subjects. With further excerpts from letters, diaries, and biographies, the whole reads as a great detective story; Roland and Maud pursuing clues and trying to keep ahead of the other scholars, hot on their trail, who seek to possess secret evidence and knowledge for themselves. And although everyone involved does seem possessed by their research subjects – Roland and Maud represent a sort of middle point in the mania, with quiet British scholars on the one side (Beatrice and Blackadder, toiling away in the basement of the British Museum for decades) and loud, rich Americans (Leonora and Crupper dashing around the globe to pursue leads) on the other – and although Roland and Maud have no moral or legal claim to pursue their leads without informing the rest of the academic world what they've discovered, as a reader, I desperately wanted them to solve the puzzle first. Between the able “ventriloquism” shown in the poems, stories, letters and diaries, and the tension added by the literary detective story, I was consistently in admiration of Byatt's writing. Roland thought, partly with precise postmodernist pleasure, and partly with a real element of superstitious dread, that he and Maud were being driven by a plot or fate that seemed, at least possibly, to be not their plot or fate but that of those others. This self-awareness in the modern storyline is likely what made the historical one more real (and engaging) to me; but it is also what allows for commentary on the necessity (or mischief) of studying authors' lives alongside their work. Until everything is revealed, the major works of Ash and LaMotte cannot possibly be properly understood (and particularly the latter's epic poem on the sorceress Melusina), but how important is it for the reader to know anything more than what appears on the page? Before this discovery, the unmarried LaMotte had been a model of feminist independence – if it turns out that she had some kind of relationship with the more famous and revered Randolph Henry Ash, she not only loses her status as a (possibly) lesbian icon, but she is open to accusations of being influenced or instructed by the more forceful male voice; how does this knowledge affect the legacy of her work? There is commentary on those “vultures” who rifled through Dickens' desk after his death to collect all of his papers, commentary on the fact that George Eliot had her most personal letters buried with her, and yet each of the scholars in the modern storyline (quiet British and loud American alike) believes that a plea for privacy does not survive death; that the need to possess every fact and artefact associated with an artist is in the interests of truth and art. It's all interesting stuff, and it's not by ironic dint that I started with a biographical nugget about Byatt in this review; I, personally, love knowing what inspired books (but I'm not about to start digging up graves to get that knowledge; I am not possessed).
3811660262	A modern classic that’s been on my to-read list for years. Glad to have finally read this, and it’s astonishing in technical terms – the sheer amount of voices and modes Byatt pulls off here is mind-boggling: not only letters, journals etc but also the actual poetry ‘written’ by Ash and LaMotte, itself ripe for analysis. I also really enjoyed the ‘literary treasure hunt’ aspect. Who would have thought a story about academic research could become so tense? But I have to admit I didn’t really connect with it emotionally... in fact at times I felt the emotional aspects were manipulatively written, a big turnoff (and surely a little beneath the book). It’s a structural thing, too: when so much of the novel is mediated through texts, and those texts are constantly being analysed, it creates a kind of scholarly distance. Still: a towering literary achievement, 100% deserving of its ‘modern classic’ status, and I adored its scope.
1863040759	Why This Should Not Have Won the Booker1. Hey. Did, uh. Did any of the characters display any actual qualities? Or did I miss that? Because I can't even think of an adjective for the phrase: "Roland, our ______ protagonist." Oh no wait: Roland, our completely featureless protagonist, exhibits absolutely no growth or development throughout the entire book. He just ends up blindly succeeding at a paper he writes near the end of the novel, the content of which we never know, so we can't judge for ourselves whether this guy is brilliant (or as dull as he's been for the entire novel). Every other character -- and oh, there are many, and most of them are redundant -- plays their one note REAL HARD every time we see them. They also do not develop. This is annoying because this book is 550 pages long. There was time. 2. The description is maddening. MADDENING. Once Byatt got to dialogue it was engaging enough, but most of the book is excessively long, purple-prosed description about shit that does not matter. Kill your darlings -- then devote that space to giving your main character a personality.3. Was this supposed to be in any way a surprising mystery? Because listen -- I'm not good at predicting plot specifics; I like the chaos of narrative and can never decide on what would make the most sense. But even I had the entire reveal down in the first 100 pages, easily. It's so blatantly obvious that I don't even feel saying what it is would be spoilers. Suffice to say: Dan Brown aped the shit out of this storyline. HOWEVER: I don't really care about plot, if there's something else being prioritized -- but with our flat characters and ridiculous prose, there wasn't much else to go on. So if a cliched plot can win the Booker, step aside: I have ten award-winning novels to mock-write.4. God help you if you're still watching the trainwreck that is Once Upon a Time, but if you are: you know how every time they introduce a new character, your first thought is "Ahh shit -- what other character is this one related to?" And you know how that's really frustrating, because characters shouldn't have to rely on previously-introduced characters for an introduction to the narrative? Well. LAWYER SUBPLOT. That's all I'm going to say.(For those of you who haven't read this: essentially, Roland's ex(?)-girlfriend, who has no other purpose or description, gets together with a lawyer who conveniently owns a horse with another lawyer who just so happens to be representing the guy who has the Very Important Letters everyone's after. And then they all get together and have dinner and come up with a Wacky Scheme to get the Letters. But none of it would have worked if not for these absurdly convenient connections. And this is only one example of many.)5. Holy shit, I just realized: this book IS Once Upon a Time. Everyone ends up together at the end; "true love" is prioritized over all other qualities and events; nothing really happens except some family drama; everyone is related to everyone else and all events/relationships are ridiculously convenient; all the plots are cliches and the symbolism heavy-handed; and there's no development or growth in anyone!! MASTER'S THESIS HERE I COME: True Love's Wisp: The Insubstantial Bullshit of Possession and Once Upon a Time. You're excited.Now -- I can admit that some of my complaints are subjective, so here's a second list.Okay Fine This Is Personal Shit But Why Were These Things Included1. THE STUPID FUCKING HAIR MOTIF. omfg. I can't. Maud's goddamn head scarf. Maybe that whole "men treat me as an object because of my beautiful blonde locks so I must hide them" bit is just 90s feminism (BY THE WAY: was this book trying to be feminist???? it sure didn't work but I CAN'T TELL SOMEONE HELP). But Fergus the dickfuck told her to grow it after keeping it shaved for ages....and so she does???? and then hides it with the scarf because she still feels weird about it???? only to let it down at moments when Roland can think about how beauteous she is??? ohhhh my god. no. end this. The symbolism isn't worth it. And the dumb blonde hair plait reveal at the end. Shoot me.2. I have this thing about two protagonists coming together at the end of a story simply by virtue of them being the two protagonists (and, usually, of opposite genders). That thing is that I HATE IT BECAUSE IT ALMOST NEVER MAKES SENSE. Oh, you're a totally bland kinda short dude with no discernible qualities? Hey, you've been paired up with this striking but cold brilliant female scholar with whom you have very little in common. But don't worry because YOUR LOVE WILL PREVAIL! sorry WHAT LOVE?! What chemistry?! What reason for this?! None. Oh my god.3. Christabel was a bitch. Now usually I love bitches, but whiny bitches who are idealized for literally no reason? No. She was rude to literally everyone she encountered, including Ash, and for some reason everyone still saw her as the sun and moon. Infuriating. No.4. Every now and then I'd take a step back from the narrative and think waaaaait a second. This entire story revolves around where some letters should be stored. It's a bunch of academics running around the English countryside yelling at each other about copyright. Do...do I care? Does this really matter? And that scene at the end where they all go teedly-dee to Cropper's hotel room to open The Box, and the three female academics all wear a different colour of Cropper's pajamas. Uh....what? The hell.4a. How the fuck did Cropper have a bottomless cheque book devoted to an obscure British poet? How does that make any -- oh wait. Because the plot literally could not have occurred without it. Right. Okay.5. On a serious note: I was profoundly unimpressed with how homosexuality was treated in this -- like an academic indulgence, something that couldn't possibly be valid. That may not have been the intent, and it was written in the 90s, but I can still be critical -- it was brushed off, often made fun of, and generally subservient to the power of heterosexual love. And hey, I like my dude/girl stuff as much as the next person, but not at the expense of other possibilities. Not cool.At one point while I was reading this, someone asked me how it was going. My answer was: "I think I know how it's going to end, and if it goes that way -- 3 stars. But she might do something else, in which case -- 4." There are some thematic moments of interest -- possession, academic and romantic, and I actually really enjoyed the Ash/Christabel storyline -- however. Guys: it shoulda been 2. But you know how it is. You get swept up in the writing and the world of the Booker-winning (???) novel, and you forget that what you're reading is an absurd, predictable, deus-ex-machina-ridden soup of flat characters. What can I say. I was........possessed.>:)
356850369	Ah, did you once see Shelley plain, And did he stop and speak to you? And did you speak to him again? How strange it seems, and new! But you were living before that, And you are living after,And the memory I started at— My starting moves your laughter! I crossed a moor, with a name of its own And a certain use in the world no doubt, Yet a hand’s-breadth of it shines alone ’Mid the blank miles round about: For there I picked up on the heather And there I put inside my breast A moulted feather, an eagle-feather— Well, I forget the rest.~ Memorabilia, Robert Browning.
1929656336	Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003. They took to silence. They touched each other without comment and without progression. A hand on a hand, a clothed arm, resting on an arm. An ankle overlapping an ankle, as they sat on a beach, and not removed. One night they fell asleep, side by side... He slept curled against her back, a dark comma against her pale elegant phrase. I have nothing particularly profound or interesting to say about this book other than I did not enjoy it. I found it lacklustre, boring, adrift and self-indulgent. Perhaps some good writing, but not enough to save it from itself. Beyond that, I simply do not care.Blog | Reviews | Instagram | Twitter
4645029719	I have been looking forward to reading this for a long time and I think over time my expectations grew too high. I expected to jump in and enjoy it from the first word. Sadly this wasn’t the case. However, the good news is that it was a slow burner and it grew on me more and more as the book went on. Looking back over the book it really is a masterfully executed piece of writing. It is incredibly clever and the depth it goes into is intoxicating. In essence the book is a postmodern historical mystery set in the world of academia. ‘Possession’ is about the relations between the living and the dead. But it also applies to sexual relationships. Perhaps my favourite line in the whole book was: “He would teach her that she was not his possession, he would show her she was free, he would see her flash her wings.” So in actuality it isn’t about gaining possession of people or things, it is the true opposite. Possession explores Romantic and literary themes and the writers.The book depicts the search for the truth about a relationship between two Victorian poets, Randolph Henry Ash and Christabel LaMotte. While these characters are fictional they are loosely based on real-life poets Christina Rosetti and Robert Browning.The story all begins September 1986 with Roland Michell who is performing research at the London Library. He is an expert in the field of Victorian literature, specifically the Victorian poet Randolph Henry Ash. He studied under the supervision of Professor James Blackadder. Roland now works at a research centre located in the British Museum. While looking through a book owned by Ash, he finds two drafts of letters addressed to an unknown woman whom Ash seems to have been struck by and sought to continue a conversation with. Roland is intrigued and steals the letters from the library without telling anyone he has found them.Curious for more information, Roland and Maud visits Christabel's grave, and then explore the grounds near Seal Court. Roland encounters a woman in a wheelchair, and helps her. She turns out to be Joan Bailey, who lives at Seal Court and invites them back to the house. The house is simply a ground floor made with every possible aid, doors and ramps, all that could be done for Joan as she got about in her wheelchair. As they chat with Joan and her husband George, George discusses his lack of interest in Christabel or poetry in general, as well as his irritation with Leonora having visited to try and find out more. However, at his wife's urging, he does agree to show Roland and Maud the room where Christabel lived. In the room, they are struck by a collection of dolls; they had china faces and little kid-leather arms. They all stared with blue glassy eyes, filled with dust. Maud reveals that she had written a series of poems about the dolls - ‘They were ostensibly for children like the Takes for Innocents. But not really.’ Guided by her memory of a poem that refers to dolls hiding a secret:‘Dolly keeps a SecretSafer than a friendDolly’s silent sympathy Lasts without end.Friends may betray us Love may decayDolly’s discretionOutlasts our day.’…the poem continues for another few stanzas, in a similar form, claiming the love of her dolls. Then Maud pulled at the ribbon of two parcels…revealing two bundles neatly as folded handkerchiefs…Roland was very much intrigued, as was I. These were the letters of Christabel’s life. It was like finding the love letters of Jane Austen or Charlotte Bronte.Returning home, he finds a letter from Joan Bailey, informing him that she and her husband have decided to allow him and Maud to read the letters together. She suggests they stay with them for a few days in order to do so. While he tries to figure out how to arrange this trip without alerting anyone to his find, Val returns home accompanied by a handsome lawyer named Euan MacIntyre, whom she has been working with. Val is irritable and tries to make Roland jealous.A few months later, Roland and Maud have assembled at Seal Court to review the letters. They each read the letters related to their poet. The next day when Maud returns to Seal Court, Roland startles her in the garden, embarrassing both of them and to add to the awkwardness, the snow worsens that evening, and Joan suggests Maud and Roland both spend the night. As she prepares for bed, Roland unexpectedly runs into her outside the bath and is shocked by the rush of attraction he feels when they touch. This awkward encounter is heightened by Joan's assumption that the two of them are in a relationship, even though Roland corrects her. They are like a bunch of awkward teenagers; their nativity is quite sweet actually. I must admit I found the ENDLESS letters to be rather tiresome. It was page after page after page correspondence, which at the beginning was a nice shift from the usual prose but after a while it became hard to kept up with what was happening and who was writing. However, after a while the letters shifted to include a fairy tale by Christabel, and highlights from the correspondence between she and Randolph Henry Ash. In their letters they discuss literature, their own current projects, religion, and the day-to-day details of their lives.I couldn’t have been more glad to see prose in my life lol 😂 although saying that, it didn’t last long before we were swept back up in piles of letters…Byatt seems to have used Val and Roland’s romance as a link to the present day. Val feels very much threatened by the amount of time Roland spends working with various other women…I mean who could blame her? When Maud and Beatrice phone Roland to confirm visits, Val is cold and rude to them on the phone. She is also curt with Roland about the phone call later, irritated by him. I was very curious whether their relationship would outlast his PhD! Roland and Maud come up with the idea of exploring Yorkshire to see what clues from the writings of both poets might seem to fit with the theory of them having been together there. A short time later, the two of them are staying together in a small inn and planning to explore not only the place but each other’s minds; They get to know each other better, discussing their perspectives on life and art. One day on the beach, Maud playfully reveals her hair to Roland, something she has never done before.The narrative is constantly switching between journals, prose, poems, fairy tales etc. I found it a bit overwhelming and off putting to be honest. Up until this point, letters, diaries, and excerpts of literature have provided the voices of characters from the past. Now, we get to be fully immersed in the world of the poets using the more familiar form of historical fiction. It was very cleverly and smoothly executed. They carried on their research and then out of nowhere, Maud found herself reading a suicide note (TW ⚠️). She was trying to figure out where and why this tragedy occurred…Desperate for further answers about the suicide, Roland calls Maud and they make an abrupt plan to go together to France to look at the documents held by Ariane and try to learn more about what Christabel did in France. In France, Maud and Roland have lingered after reading Sabine's journal; they find lots of exciting and life changing information! Roland, however, is also aware that he has very little to go back to, since he has likely permanently ruined his relationship with Blackadder and Val. The sexual and romantic tension between Roland and Maud has also increased, although neither of them have acted on it.Returning to England, Roland moves in with Maud in her flat in Lincoln. In October, they receive a phone call from Euan inviting them for dinner. When they arrive, Euan is joined by Val and by Toby Byng. Euan confirms that the copyright to Christabel's poems and stories is held by Maud's family, and suggests that she might also legally hold the copyright to the letters written by Christabel. Since Maud is the current descendent of May Bailey, she may have a good claim to all of the letters, as well as the copyright to the ones written by Christabel. They are within her possession! Roland eventually returns to his London flat, which has fallen into disrepair after his landlady was unexpectedly hospitalized. He takes care of the many stray cats she was typically responsible for, and is shocked to find that he has received letters offering him several academic jobs.The group is overwhelmed by an exciting discovery regarding Christabel, but saddened that Ash never knew of this revelation. They retire to their rooms, exhausted by the events. Alone together, Roland and Maud open up and discuss their true feelings for each other. Maud is afraid of the love and desire she feels, but Roland reassures her that they can find a way to make a future together, even as they both also explore their intellectual ambitions. They make love for the first time. For Maud this is quite a surprise. She has always been so guarded and independent and the idea of being with someone she could fully lose her heart to is terrifying. But having come to the end of their quest and seen out the story of their two authors to its conclusion, Maud and Roland are finally able to follow their hearts.
766200710	This review will not be long, for this book has defeated me, and in such a way that I don't overly feel like enumerating what went wrong here. The short answer is most likely that I'm just not the right reader for this book (and this author, which is why I've deleted The Children's Book from my TBR). I bought this ages ago, probably over a decade, and finally gave it a try about six years ago. I got 48 pages in before I said I'd try it another time. I'm playing BINGO over at Cannonball Read this year, and there's a White Whale square, so I figured this would be a perfect time to finally read this book, and give it a real shot. It did not go well.To be quite honest with you, before I started speed-reading this, while I was genuinely trying to read it straight, a great deal of it was being interpreted by my brain as absolute gibberish. It was extremely bizarre. It's like I'm a magnet and this book is a magnet and you try to push the wrong ends together, and they just push each other apart. I had to force it the whole way.And it was frustrating, because this sounds like something I would love, but the style absolutely 1000% did not work for me. I felt like I was slowly losing my faculties as I read. Basically in this metaphorical game of Ahab and the whale, the whale has eaten Ahab and roams the ocean still, his teeth bloody. P.S. Whalers were gross and the ships attacked by whales deserved it. HOT TAKE!!
2822241676	A worthy Man Booker Prize winner. The story of two academics Roland and Maud finding a secret about two famous Victorian poets I found fascinating. The competition between biographers Blackadder and Cropper is amusing in parts. Obsession drives them as well as possession of both heirlooms and knowledge about their subject Randolph Ash. Maud also is driven to find out who Christabel LaMotte was and whether she was the person she thought she was. The story using letters, diaries and detective work on the poems gradually discovers a passionate romance. Switching between the present and the past with wonderful prose and descriptions of the landscape and the classical mythology the poems of Ash and Christabel are based upon. The author did in part use cliches but sometimes they work and in this romance they work. I did like ending with a postscript of Ash walking in the countryside and coming across something that makes him very happy.
1381692002	Belíssimo “tour de force” literário. “Possessão” é um romance com múltiplas camadas de significação e enquanto tal merece uma análise cuidada por camada. Do meu interesse em literatura, e do que me é mais facilmente acessível, defino três que me surgem de modo evidente — romance mistério, virtuosismo, e sátira académica — mas é claro que um trabalho mais profundo de análise e interpretação literária encontrará outras camadas de relevo. Daqui percebe-se que não estamos perante um simples romance, mas antes uma obra de grande labor. Aliás, não é por acaso a sua premiação com o Man Booker em 1990, mas diga-se que também não é por acaso o reduzido número de leitores, a julgar pelo GoodReads, e pelo facto do livro ter saído em 2008 em Portugal e eu ter adquirido em 2016 ainda uma cópia da sua primeira edição.A.S. Byatt escreveu um romance académico a partir do seu conhecimento literário mas também com base em conhecimento experiencial da vida académica. Passou mais de metade da sua vida anterior à escrita de “Possessão” a leccionar Literatura Inglesa em diferentes universidades britânicas. O reconhecimento da qualidade do seu labor, pela academia, veio posteriormente à publicação de “Possessão” na forma de mais de uma dezena de Doutoramentos Honorários.Romance mistérioA história acerca-se de dois investigadores em literatura, Roland Mitchell e Maud Bailey, cada um especialista no estudo do seu poeta vitoriano — Randolph Henry Ash e Christabel LaMotte — que por meio da investigação de diferentes documentos vão descobrir algo completamente novo. Enquanto poetas mortos há muito, acreditava-se já tudo saber sobre os mesmos, quando a ponta do véu de uma potencial conexão entre ambos se levanta, não apenas a curiosidade por saber mais se apresenta, como muitas das teorias até aí tidas sobre cada um destes poetas se fragilizam, pondo em questão muito do conhecimento existente.[imagem]Paisagem de Yorkshire, onde acontecem algumas sequências centrais do livro.Acredito que Byatt, enquanto especialista em literatura, se tenha questionado sobre a estrutura a adotar para a escrita de uma tal premissa. Muito provavelmente percebendo a audiência limitada de uma história assente em minúcias de investigadores académicos, terá decidido adotar uma estrutura forte em termos de enredo, baseada no mistério e suspense, capaz de segurar o interesse do leitor geral. Para isto recriou a base clássica do romance impossível, condimentou-o com todos os ingredientes que nos fazem salivar e agitou tudo na nossa frente, obrigando-nos a ir atrás, desejosos por saber mais. Como se não bastasse, não se limitou a um foco romanesco, colocou dois poetas no século XIX, e dois investigadores no século XX, saltitando entre uns e outros, para que nunca nos faltasse ímpeto. E consegue-o, apesar do tema delimitado, apesar de uma abordagem estética pós-moderna, nunca o interesse por continuar a ler desaparece, tendo mesmo fases de alguma agudez em que não conseguimos pousar o livro.VirtuosismoFalei acima de estrutura porque é nela que Byatt exibe as suas maiores qualidades. Servindo-se do clássico discurso de mistério como dorso de suporte ao todo, são adotados múltiplos outros formatos discursivos para nos levar até ao cerne do universo criado: poético, confessional, intimista, académico. O texto em prosa serve de cola geral, mas o mesmo é continuamente ao longo de todo o livro, entrecortado por: textos de poesia; textos de cartas íntimas; textos não publicados de diários; textos de jornais; textos de artigos científicos. Por sua vez o próprio narrador vai saltitando no tempo (séculos XIX e XX), no espaço, entre personagens, e entre pontos de vista. É verdadeiramente virtuosa a estrutura, a complexidade que se entrosa para criar uma teia, que de tão perfeitamente tecida é a todo o momento completamente compreensível e digestível.Mas não é só na estrutura que Byatt surpreende, todos estes textos, todas estas vozes, todos os pontos de vista, são criados por si. Byatt pretende criar a ideia de textos pré-existentes, que vão sendo encontrados, à semelhança da tradicional narrativa detetivesca, mas aqui esses textos não são apenas referenciados, ou apropriados pela prosa, nem são tão pouco citados, retirados de outras obras. Para chegar àquilo em que resulta o todo desta obra, Byatt teve de criar universos próprios e estéticas para dois poetas vitorianos, os vários textos de jornal vitorianos, diários intimistas por múltiplas vozes, cartas e respostas de cartas, cada uma dotada de identidade própria. Temos múltiplas histórias dentro de múltiplas histórias, mas todas trabalham para uma mesma e única grande história, sendo este mesmo trabalho de união do todo, seguindo a abordagem de coerência causal, a “unidade de ação” de Aristoteles, que faz com que o final do livro seja tão gratificante, impactante, verdadeiramente catártico.Sátira académicaSe os dois primeiros níveis são de grande qualidade, é aqui que me sinto mais em casa, e desse modo quero dividir este ponto em dois subpontos: a crítica das rotinas e rituais dos académicos tão próximas da minha realidade diária; e a crítica aos modelos de fazer ciência.Relativamente ao mundo humano que habita a academia temos uma crítica certeira, começando pelo protagonista que apesar de fazer um bom trabalho, e ter excelentes capacidades, não consegue atingir uma posição estável no seio da universidade por força da sua inabilidade social. Temos assim que as Universidades apesar de propalarem uma cultura de mérito, o chico-espertismo consegue ainda vingar. A guerra entre os dois professores seniores, britânico e americano, especialistas no poeta central do livro, é também muito interessante pelo modo como espelha a diferença entre as academias americana e a europeia. Do lado Europeu, o interesse cultural, o interesse de uma nação, povo e acima de tudo do bem comunitário. Do lado americano, o interesse económico e individualista. A força do dinheiro que tudo pode, tudo consegue.[imagem]University of LondonO livro é de 1990 e reporta uma visão ainda distante do que se vive hoje, porque se nesse altura se olhava para os EUA com desdém e crítica, esse olhar deu uma volta de 180º, e hoje toda a academia europeia olha para a academia americana em busca de modelos a copiar e imitar. Hoje os gestores e políticos que regem as universidades europeias nada mais anseiam do que o poder financeiro. Daí, que o conhecimento tenha sofrido tantos revés, e muito daquilo que hoje se faz em termos de investigação acaba por vezes sendo bastante questionável.Mas a crítica à academia é cíclica, ou melhor dizendo contínua, nunca estamos bem, e ainda bem. E por isso em “Possessão” a crítica de Byatt, para além dos pontos mencionados, foca-se num problema iniciado nos anos 1970, nomeadamente ao nível de domínios das Humanidades, com toda a componente de áreas iniciadas por “Estudos”: de cinema, de literatura, feministas, culturais. Marcados pela ausência de um domínio de psicologia, ainda subdesenvolvido, dominado por uma psicanálise que de científico tinha pouco, e de esotérico tinha muito, vão começar a fazer surgir “verdades” assentes em teorizações fantásticas de Freud, Lacan, entre outros. Como consequência, a academia começa a perder credibilidade, mas o pior é que em vez de recuar, acelera e atira-se para o precipício por meio daquilo que chamaria mais tarde de pós-modernismo, que nos trataria até ao momento atual, o da pós-verdade.A crítica do livro é mais dirigida aos Estudos Feministas, mas é um claro ataque aos seus métodos, que não eram seu exclusivo, e está fortemente presente no cerne da obra, como choque mesmo, podendo passar despercebida a quem está distante destes assuntos. Assim, ao longo de toda a jornada encetada por Maud e Roland, existe a todo o momento uma preocupação com a verdade na forma de prova, com a demonstração efetiva do que teria acontecido no século anterior entre aqueles dois poetas, uma tentativa de buscar evidências que tornem claro o que se pretende afirmar de novo. E é aqui que surge a graça, o riso, já que muito do conhecimento detido sobre Randolph Henry Ash e Christabel LaMotte é de origem interpretativa, pejado de simbolismos e vieses de cada investigador, sendo agora postos em cheque e mesmo destronados pelo novo conhecimento. Mais se poderia ainda dizer, nomeadamente sobre a crença e descrença no espiritismo que surge a meio do livro, com Ash e LaMotte colocados de lados distintos.Por fim, não quero deixar de destacar uma última camada, que não analiso porque daria todo um texto próprio, e que o livro nos oferece a partir do seu título. A “Possessão” surge em múltiplas formas ao longo de todo o livro, e pode ser lida em conexão com qualquer um dos pontos acima discutidos, contudo para mim o foco esteve ligado à ideia de autenticidade. Desde o início, aquilo que conduz Roland a, na biblioteca, ficar na posse dos dois esboços de cartas, é o modo como ele define o que sente, a sensação de tocar num papel tocado e escrito pelo próprio Ash. A posse é depois definida de modos diferentes, consoante o personagem, mas existe um fascínio com essa autenticidade, que por sua vez se liga com a ideia de prova e existência. Este tema daria assim para discutir a nossa efemeridade e por outro lado a extensibilidade da mesma em remanescentes externos de garante de perenidade.Publicado em VI (https://virtual-illusion.blogspot.pt/...).
338086744	I think A.S. Byatt had a list of rules scrawled on a post-it note by her at all times when she wrote this book, as follows:i. All characters to have names that make it instantly obvious what they are like (e.g. Beatrice Nest = librarian; Lawrence Wolf = predatory academic; Christabel = tedious floppy poet, etc.);ii. It is imperative that the two main characters (Maud = haughty blonde ice-queen and Ronald or Roland or Ranald = mole-like academic. See i) find each other sexually attractive for no reason at all, regardless of whether they seem suited, or to like each other much, or indeed to have any chemistry whatsoever. You can make this non-frisson seem *even more* exciting by giving the woman some unlikely quirk e.g. covering her hair at all times for reasons that nobody will recall, and the man spectacularly unrealistic sexual prowess;iii. If in doubt, throw in an unlikely plot twist, such as finding previously undiscovered poetry of enormous significance folded into four and secreted in a cupboard ten minutes after entering a house that the characters are only in at all through a strikingly unlikely concatenation of circumstances;iv. Include reams and reams and reams of dreary poetry. Nothing delights the reader more than turning over the page to see an indent-less column of what looks like blank verse, but on closer inspection turns out to be drivel;v. Finally, whenever you get bored, change to another character's point of view for a chapter or two. This won't confuse or bore the reader at all. If that doesn't do the trick, create another pointless cliched female character. How about a lesbian? Yeah, lesbians.
580448570	I knew the existence of Possession by A.S. Byatt years before I actually read it. Why did I know it? Because I found the book in the library and I was intrigued by the coverart of The Beguiling of Merlin by Edward Burne-Jones. My reading progress so far: I noticed the author keeps throwing her very heavy book bags at us! LolTo be honest it's a tiring book to read, the writing is good and I'm impressed by the author's writing skill, but the story isn't easy to swallow. I must confess, toward the end of the novel I started skimming all the way to the ending, part of me is impressed by the author's imaginary of setting up two fictional poets and the romance between those two, but on the other hand, the endless references and researches are getting into my nerves, so 3.3 stars only.
2835094131	Think of this—that the writer wrote alone, and the reader read alone, and they were alone with each other.…He heard the language moving around, weaving its own patterns, beyond the reach of any single human, writer or reader. He heard Vico saying that the first men were poets and the first words were names that were also things...So I speak to you—or not speak, write to you, write written speech—a strange mixture of kinds—I speak to you as I might speak to all those who most possess my thoughts—to Shakespeare, to Thomas Browne, to John Donne, to John Keats—and find myself unpardonably lending you, who are alive, my voice, as I habitually lend it to those dead men—Which is much as to say—here is an author of Monologues—trying clumsily to construct a Dialogue—and encroaching on both halves of it. Forgive me. While not my absolute favourite ventriloquistic, historiographic tour de force (that would be perhaps a tie between John Barth's The Sot-Weed Factor and John Fowles's The French Lieutenant's Woman, with Thomas Pynchon's Mason & Dixon a very wild wild card), this book was nevertheless quite the tour indeed, and forcibly made me reconsider my estimation of 19C poetry (which is likely about as errant and uniformed an opinion as what i think of 18C tragedy, say, or, LOL. the Canadian novel...but still an opinion for all that, and as worth about as much).This novel was just so artful, though, whilst managing to be somehow equally erudite (or is that the other way 'round?), that I can easily see myself reading her Frederica Quartet (quadrivium?!) in 2024, which I rushed out and bought not long after starting this one, I was so impressed.It took her death, though, to get me to read this (and what's with that?), though I had read her The Matisse Stories years ago, and loved it (and re-re-read one in particular, "Medusa's Ankles"...so good). Why did I stop there, for so many years? I am an inconstant reader and fickle fiction-lover, I suppose, like those bright spritely birds who metaphorically alight at Katherine Mansfield's "Garden Party" for a brief visit, then move on, unaware that "poems are worth all the cucumber-sandwiches in the world," and so always in search of some mythical Heart of Saturday Night Afternoon (collecting/measuring the silvery worth of such moments with purloined coffee spoons, no doubt)...Speaking of readers and reading, this book has several golden edibles (those everripe "Spenser’s golden apples" we all seek, "glistening bright among the [...] ashes and cinders, may have seen in [our] mind’s eye, apple of [our] eye, the golden fruit of the [eternal] Primavera"), At the old world’s rimIn the Hesperidean grove, the fruitGlowed golden on eternal boughs concerning which that I'll end with by quoting, by way of hopefully convincing the unconvinced to be more quickly convinced of Ms. Byatt's merits than I was, because there is so little time, dear reader, and so much to wade through to find our El Dorados... It is possible for a writer to make, or remake at least, for a reader, the primary pleasures of eating, or drinking, or looking on, or sex. Novels have their obligatory tour-de-force, the green-flecked gold omelette aux fines herbes, melting into buttery formlessness and tasting of summer, or the creamy human haunch, firm and warm, curved back to reveal a hot hollow, a crisping hair or two, the glimpsed sex. They do not habitually elaborate on the equally intense pleasure of reading. There are obvious reasons for this, the most obvious being the regressive nature of the pleasure, a mise-en-abîme even, where words draw attention to the power and delight of words, and so ad infinitum, thus making the imagination experience something papery and dry, narcissistic and yet disagreeably distanced, without the immediacy of sexual moisture or the scented garnet glow of good burgundy.There are readings—of the same text—that are dutiful, readings that map and dissect, readings that hear a rustling of unheard sounds, that count grey little pronouns for pleasure or instruction and for a time do not hear golden or apples. There are personal readings, which snatch for personal meanings, I am full of love, or disgust, or fear, I scan for love, or disgust, or fear. There are—believe it—impersonal readings—where the mind’s eye sees the lines move onwards and the mind’s ear hears them sing and sing.Now and then there are readings that make the hairs on the neck, the non-existent pelt, stand on end and tremble, when every word burns and shines hard and clear and infinite and exact, like stones of fire, like points of stars in the dark—readings when the knowledge that we shall know the writing differently or better or satisfactorily, runs ahead of any capacity to say what we know, or how. In these readings, a sense that the text has appeared to be wholly new, never before seen, is followed, almost immediately, by the sense that it was always there, that we the readers, knew it was always there, and have always known it was as it was, though we have now for the first time recognised, become fully cognisant of, our knowledge.
44618128	Byatt realiza una mezcla de géneros que satisface al lector más exigente, y que no pierde su sabor tras su relectura. Una de las mejores novelas publicadas en el siglo XX, de lectura imprescindible.
6463265056	A modern day academic (Roland Michell) who specialises in the poetry of Randolph Henry Ash (a fictional 19th century poet) discovers a letter he wrote to an unknown woman and begins to investigate. He comes to learn that the woman was Christabel LaMotte (another reasonably well-known poet of the 19the century) and seeks the help of an academic called Maud Bailey who specialises in LaMotte. Together they uncover a lost love story between these two poets and follow in their footsteps as they become obsessed with solving the mystery. Unsurprisingly, these two modern day academics start to find themselves developing feelings for each other. So I mostly enjoyed this but it wasn't the kind of thing I would normally read. I found the modern day story of Roland and Maud investigating the story of Ash and LaMotte to be very engaging, more so than the romance of the two poets themselves. There were some issues I had, however, the first being the letters between Ash and LaMotte which, frankly, I found a little dull to read. Then we have all the poetry in the book written by Ash or LaMotte (but actually written by Byatt) which was hard to assess. I'm not big into poetry and so I couldn't tell you if this stuff was good or not (certainly not if it was 19th century poet of global repute good). My instincts told me that it probably wasn't, that it was slightly... meh. But I couldn't tell you for sure. Good or not, I didn't really enjoy any of it (despite being aware that there were clues in these poems linking Ash and LaMotte). Then there's another little nitpick I have. All the way through the book, we only learn about Ash and LaMotte's romance via their letters, their poetry, biographies etc. But then suddenly, towards the end of the book, Byatt just drops us into their lives (Ash and LaMotte) as they travel together in Yorkshire as man and wife which felt like a cheat. Why have Roland and Maude investigate all this stuff (the letters, books, poems etc) if you can simply narrate their story whenever you feel like it? It happens again at the very end of the book but that felt earned and necessary, a nice little touch to finish things off. But the earlier example just seemed out of place given everything that went before it. Anyway...Ultimately, I liked the book and would recommend it. I especially liked the idea that love (deep, visceral love) can never escape the quality of being possessive. In a post feminist world (Byatt mentions feminism and feminist interpretations a lot in the book) women are increasingly repulsed by the idea of belonging to someone and yet that, by its very nature, is what true love always demands.So yeah, the book wasn't really my cup of tea overall but it was entertaining, well written, well put together, and easy to read. And it goes without saying if you are a big softie who still believes in that thing called love *spits in disgust* then you will definitely find something to like here. The book is, after all, quite heartbreakingly romantic.
104271128	I'm not sure what to say except how have I not read this before? It is incandescent in its temporal treatment of time. The multi-genre format contributes to the progression of the narrative in a way that a traditional format could not. I wanted to be on the trek of the mystery surrounding Christabel and Ash. Amazing, visual, intriguing. I loved it!
5124677449	Την Εμμονή την ξεκίνησα γνωρίζοντας ότι είχε κερδίσει το Μπούκερ το 1990 κι ότι είχε εκφράσει το θαυμασμό της γι’ αυτή ο Ουμπέρτο Έκο. Είχα δει επίσης πριν από πολλά χρόνια την ταινία, μια (πολύ τίμια) ρομαντική κομεντί στους χώρους των πανεπιστημίων και της φιλολογικής έρευνας, με δύο καθηγητές που ανακαλύπτουν μέσα από διάφορα καλά κρυμμένα χειρόγραφα τον άγνωστο έρωτα δύο ποιητών του προηγούμενου αιώνα. Όλα αυτά ήταν αρκετά για να μου κινήσουν την περιέργεια όταν έπεσε το βιβλίο στα χέρια μου. Δεν περίμενα ωστόσο ότι τελειώνοντάς το θα είχα σημαδευτεί ανεξίτηλα από ένα αριστούργημα της σύγχρονης (και οποιασδήποτε) λογοτεχνίας. Γιατί υπάρχουν πολλοί λόγοι για να αγαπήσεις ένα βιβλίο: τα συναισθήματα που προκαλεί, η ομορφιά της γλώσσας, η πλοκή, η φόρμα, η πρωτοτυπία του θέματος, οι γνώσεις του συγγραφέα και η έρευνα που έχει κάνει, οι διακειμενικές αναφορές και ο διάλογος με την εποχή του, το πώς μπορεί να εντάσσεται σε ένα είδος και να το υπηρετεί πιστά ή το πώς, από την άλλη, μπορεί να παραμένει αταξινόμητο, να αποδομεί και να διαπερνά τα είδη, συνθέτοντας κάτι ολότελα μοναδικό και ιδιαίτερο. Λίγα βιβλία όμως καταφέρνουν όλα τα παραπάνω και κάτι ακόμα περισσότερο. Και η Εμμονή είναι ένα από αυτά. Κι αν είναι πραγματικά ένας άθλος να χωρέσεις σε μια αφήγηση τόσα διαφορετικά και ετερόκλιτα λογοτεχνικά είδη (επιστολικό μυθιστόρημα, campus novel, ημερολογιακές εγγραφές, μυστήριο, ρομάντζο, επική ποίηση, λυρική ποίηση, κριτικό δοκίμιο), η Μπάιατ όχι μόνο το έκανε, αλλά έπλασε από την αρχή δύο ρομαντικούς ποιητές και συνέθεσε την ερωτική αλληλογραφία και τα έργα τους, ποιήματα επικά και λυρικά, μέσα από τα οποία οι δύο καταραμένοι εραστές άφησαν δυσεπίλυτα ίχνη της κρυφής σχέσης τους και των αμοιβαίων επιρροών τους. Μπροστά σε έναν τέτοιο σημειολογικό πλούτο, πώς να μην πάθει την πλάκα του ο φίλτατος Ουμπέρτο;Η Μπάιατ δεν είναι η πρώτη που ξεδιπλώνει δύο ερωτικές ιστορίες και τις αφήνει να τρέχουν αντιστικτικά σε δύο παράλληλους χρόνους, αντλώντας συμπεράσματα για τις έννοιες του πάθους, της σεξουαλικότητας και του έρωτα τότε και τώρα. Είναι όμως απαράμιλλος ο τρόπος με τον οποίο συνθέτει το υλικό της και στέκεται η ίδια κριτικά απέναντι του μέσα στη ίδια αφήγηση. Με μια μαεστρία που δεν αφήνει ούτε την πιο παραμικρή λεπτομέρεια να μην αντηχήσει αργότερα, οδηγεί την πλοκή σε ένα εκκωφαντικό (διπλό) κρεσέντο και σε μία κορύφωση, η οποία πέρα από τον όποιο εγκεφαλικό ή φιλολογικό οργασμό σε αφήνει άφωνο με τον τρόπο που μόνο η σπουδαία λογοτεχνία καταφέρνει. Δεν έχω διαβάσει άλλα βιβλία της Μπάιατ (ελπίζω να κυκλοφορήσουν κι άλλα έργα της στη χώρα μας), αλλά αν όλα κυμαίνονται σε αυτό το επίπεδο, θεωρώ κάπως εγκληματικό το ότι αυτή η γυναίκα δεν έχει πάρει ακόμα το Νόμπελ.
131444591	Love this book. First time I read it was it OK and the next time it blew my mind! Fabulous book! ♥
103368377	Possession is exactly that, an exhilarating capture of that readerly surrender. There are elements of obsession in Byatt's detective of letters saga, but such isn't the soul. The focus here isn't on the pathological. The draughts of language which overtake us like some miner's canary flow. The scholar and the poet face each other across the divide. Time's passage and vanity blur the causal arrows. The readers remain the beneficiaries.Please don't view the film adaptation. Thank you.
1188321836	This is a ponderous and prodigious novel that follows a cast of present-day (circa 1980s) academics pursuing documentation that will reveal the relationship (i.e. affair) between two fictional Victorian era poets. The structure of the novel incorporates many different styles, including fictional diary entries, letters and poetry. Some of these are chapter length and their connection to the book’s plot are not always apparent. A reader who is able to slog through all the way to the book’s ending is rewarded with a good and interesting ending. But the experience of reading the book made me wonder if reading this book was a waste of time. While reading the book I was planning to give it 1 or 2 stars, but after finishing the book I felt like giving it 4 or 5. So I gave it 3.The word "romance" may be in the title, but I suspect that there are many fans of romance novels who found this book too densely literati to comprehend. (I'll admit that I may be using an unfair stereotype of fans of romance novels.) Readers who enjoy getting lost deep in the midst of long rambling 19th century style writing will thoroughly enjoy this book, cry at its end, and be sorry that the book didn't go on forever.I sort of enjoyed the novel's depiction of competition, secrecy, and deception between various individuals in the academic world. I particularly enjoyed an extreme "dark and stormy night" near the end of the book during which all the present-day academics who play a role in the story stumble over each other in a graveyard. Possession: A Romance won the Booker Prize in 1990. The book was made into a movie in 2002.____________The following is from PageADay's "1000 Books to Read Before You Die" Calendar for October 27, 2020:A feast of literary and storytelling invention, A.S. Byatt's Possession is mysterious, layered, suspenseful—and nearly impossible to put down, It begins in September 1986, when British academic Roland Mitchell opens a long-undisputed volume in the London Library and discovers drafts of a letter from a famous Victorian poet to a woman not his wife. Sensing a windfall, Roland steals the evidence and sets out to uncover the truth, teaming up with a fellow scholar, Maud Bailey, along the way. The two soon become literary detectives, uncovering clandestine relations and secret passions. As they do so the reader becomes absorbed in a pair of parallel love stories, one historical, one contemporary, both brilliantly told.__________A.S. Byatt, Scholar Who Found Literary Fame With Fiction, Dies at 87https://www.nytimes.com/2023/11/17/bo...
1722069356	The Poems are not for the young lady, the young lady is for the Poems5 flabbergasted stars - to this meticulously well-written masterpiece from AS Byatt. It is a novel that is so nuanced to the point of disbelief. There is a mountain of stuff in there to like - exquisitely written letters of every kind, crafty and intelligent poetry, an epic intellectual romance, characters that are so well developed that you'd want a hundred book series out of them, amusing fairy tales, both veneration and sharp parody of feminist ideology, both celebration and satire of academic researchers who peer into the past with lenses of every kind, the amazing thrill and anticipation that Byatt somehow creates throughout the novel despite its dense content, and on and on and on.Through all of this, Byatt's intensity and control of narration is unbelievable. It took a while to get into the book, but after about 10%, there was not a page which was dull or tiresome. The epistolary portions were so exquisite and grandiloquent, its hard not to get emotionally engaged.The poems were eclectic and were liberally dished out by Byatt in several flavours like romance, fairy tales, biographies, philosophy, wordplay etc. I think there must be atleast 50 poems in there, all of them delightful to read except the poem on the fairy Melusine which I thought was a bit overdone. Ash and Christabel were just outright awesome, and I don't think they are imaginary poets anymore.A highly satisfying read, will look to read more of Byatt.
3961775297	Video reviewA ghastly accident at a printer in Kent caused a 1,000 copies of Tennyson's In Memoriam to be printed with pages from Tom Clancy on every verso side."Well hold on a minute," AS Byatt said, stroking her chin. "What have we got here..."
73214221	"I cannot bear not to know the end of a tale. I will read the most trivial things – once commenced – only out of a feverish greed to be able to swallow the ending – sweet or sour – and to be done with what I need never have embarked on. Are you in my case? Or are you a more discriminating reader? Do you lay aside the unprofitable?" I have never encountered a novel such magnificent and beautifully written as this. A.S. Byatt undeniably has an outstanding ability in literature and it makes it clear to me why she won the Booker Prize in 1990. Reading this marvelous piece had been an amazing journey. My imagination had been triggered to expand more than ever—more than I expected. Shifting back and forth between two eras that are told alternately, I was slowly traversing in an amazing conundrum through various forms of writing; letters, diaries, poems, and even fairy tales. Byatt shows how imagination and creativity can possibly be manifested in various modes and are not strictly bound by a clear definition or a specific genre. I admit that this had not been an easy one to delve into, but it had been a worth journey indeed. I mean, who else writes like this?Possession: A Romance (1990) mainly tells a story about two literary scholars name Maud Bailey and Roland Michell discovering a mystery (secret love affair) behind the lives of two notable Victorian poets—Randolph Henry Ash and Christabel LaMotte. A dual plot of two different eras told alternately not only sets as a comparison, but relates and complements one another. Through out the modern world, Byatt seems to emphasize the issues faced in the literary academic world; rivalry between scholars, obsession in researches, literary criticism and interpretation. Meanwhile the Victorian part depicts not only the love affair but also issues that were faced in those days—religious doubts, the birth of science and social-class conflicts. What amazes me here is how well Byatt manages to portray the difference between the two eras significantly using two style of language that are apparent in each era. The Victorian era is narrated in a slow pace with rich description of a Victorian setting so believable, you could sense the atmosphere of the 19th century as if you were reading a novel by the Bronte sisters. On the other hand, the modern part is plotted in a typical popular fiction form with its plot-driven style. As I have mentioned above, what is unique about this book is the several different devices that the author uses. Letters and diaries not only play important roles in moving the plot forward with hints related to the main mystery, but clearly gives an understanding of the power and importance of written words. Hand written letters and diaries were clearly important intimate literary devices that were mainly used in the Victorian era, and here Byatt emphasizes to set a comparison on how the circumstance have by far changed in the modern days. Not only that, through the poems Byatt uses as epigraphs, gives a clear prove how more deeply connected people in the previous century were with poetry. Byatt shows high ability in creating poems that resembles accurately the styles of those Victorian and Romantic poets. Another essential device is the use of fairy tales through out the story. Similar to the poems, fairy tales in the story functions as riddles that are there to decipher. I found the fairy tales reflecting the whole course of the story yet at the same time deconstructing the basic structure of a classic-predictable-happy ending. The relationships between the characters are to be seen as a fairy tale, yet etched with a bittersweet touch that appears to be more realistic. Possession: A Romance is a story that points out many aspects but one that is obvious is that it shows how ‘possession’ works in each human’s life. Each of the characters in this story is obsessed with something/someone. The story not only shows how one can be possessed, but how far can one possess. In the end, this story shows that nothing can be entirely possessed no matter how obsessed they may be. Most of the mysteries are enfolded through the works of diaries, letters, poems that the modern scholars discover. But there are two parts that the author switches to her own point of view. Byatt portrays what really happen in those poets’ life that are not known by the modern scholars—characters. These important parts are only known by us—readers. The scholars could not possess complete information on what they have been so obsessed about. I find this altogether a very clever and important statement questioning the meaning and essence of ‘possession’ itself. Can we entirely possess that being we strongly love? Can a researcher/biographer possess accurate information on a real person’s life? Can we possess complete knowledge of the past (history)? This isn’t an easy read but certainly not a once in a lifetime one. I sure will be reading it sometime again.
7377230448	Це було схоже на якусь занадто закручену страву високої кухні і, вийшовши з цього «мішлєнівського закладу», скажу… що до цього ресторатора (А.С. Баєтт) більше не планую ходити. І не те, щоб страва погана, просто за такі гроші хотілося отримати щось на 100% переконливе і захоплююче😔Натомість, отримав типову високу полицю, яка не заохочує до себе тягнутись, а десь з 450 по 650 сторінку побіжно переглянув текст і добре, що останні 100 сторінок хоч трошки реабілітували книгу, бо вдалися до банального і простого для високої полиці прийому – пожвавлення сюжету та інтригуюча розв’язка Масла у вогонь розчарування підлило те, що тут багато нудних для мене речей, – вікторіанський сеттинг, маєтки, листування. Спитаєте – нашо я взагалі брався за цей текст? – і будете праві. Мабуть, я не був готовий до нього чи настрій був не той. Але останнім часом вивів для себе отаке правило: майстерна та чудова книга зможе пробудити інтерес і просто не дасть шансу занудьгувати. Так от не сталось, відчувається десь на 3,5 ⭐️ Щоб не виглядало як скигління і дурні претензії, можу порадити книгу, якщо ви любите літературу про літературу, про пошуки екзистенційних істин, загалом про пошуки чи інтерпретацію слів, про любов врешті-решт (от якраз останнє трохи витягло для мене книгу). А точно зрозуміти допоможе рецензія Ганни Улюри, в якій вона захоплено розповідає про багатошаровість та вишуканість «Одержимості» Баєтт, мене ж книга просто не зацікавила🤷‍♂️
976190081	This book is everything that a Booker prize winner should be, by which I mean it's pretentious and impenetrable.A S Byatt is an incredibly clever and talented author, but this book just reads like a vehicle for her to show us exactly how clever she is. After about 120 pages I just gave up. I read this on a Kindle and when it told me that I was going to spend the next 2 hours reading a chapter consisting entirely of turgid, purple correspondence between two 19th century poets I was faced with the choice of putting the book down or resorting to self-harm. I put the book down.Consider this sentence, picked at random:"It is done. BY FIAT. I spoke Thunder - and said - so it shall be - and there will be no questions now - or ever - and to this absolute Proposition I have - like all Tyrants - meek acquiescence."I mean, this stuff goes on for pages. I don't regard myself as being particularly easy to defeat when it comes to difficult books, but reading this was akin to marching through custard. And it shouldn't take 2 pages to describe a bathroom.The only reason I'm giving this 2 stars is... nope. Scratch that. Can't think of one. 1 star.
452431780	Where I got the book: my bookshelf. A re-read.I have always tended to quote Possession as one of my favorite books, but... Do you find that every so often you re-read a favorite and feel like this is probably the last time you're going to read it? Well, it was like that. I just didn't get that luminous glow from Byatt's writing that I always have in the past, although naturally I admire her brilliance and especially the ability to write original poetry in two different styles that come across as absolutely true to the period.This is a dual time period story, of two academics with a really bad record as far as relationships are concerned exploring the relationship between two Victorian poets. The possession of the title refers, in typically Byattian metaphysics, to possessive love, to possession of the truth, to physical possession of the objects the poets have left behind them. The story proceeds through both narrative and document, Byatt being quite capable of inventing an entire world of materials (letters, poetry, disquisitions and stories) to build such a convincing reality that you could almost find yourself looking up Randolph Henry Ash on the internet. After writing those words I tried that very thing, and found that he and Christabel have many fans--they have, in fact, a weird kind of ongoing life in virtual reality, which speaks volumes for Byatt's ability to bring an utterly convincing nineteenth century world into being.And yet...perhaps it's because my allegiance is shifting to Hilary Mantel with her shiny dialogue and pithy, short bits of narrative that I now find Possession just a touch staid and dated, a ghost of my earnest, classics-reading youth. The bloom is off the rose, the fizz is off the champagne, and while I'll always remember Randolph, Christabel, Roland and Maud with fondness I may now leave them to new readers and move on. They're starting to feel like a shell that's become too tight for me and needs to be shed. Alas for a brilliant book, but reading is, as Dorothy L. Sayers pointed out, part of our growth as people and if we are to grow, we need to expect loyalties to change.
4465706014	"Possessione - Una storia romantica" è un romanzo tanto stupefacente quanto complesso. Lo si inserisce direttamente nella categoria della metaletteratura, in quanto A. S. Byatt, l'autrice, basa la trama su vari livelli: quelli che all'apparenza sembrano i protagonisti principali, gli accademici Roland Mitchell e Maud Bailey, in realtà porteranno il lettore a rivivere l'appassionante vicenda di due poeti vittoriani, Randolph Henry Ash e Christabel Lamotte. Questi ultimi sono poeti fittizi, totalmente inventati dalla Byatt, ma il suo modo di raccontare sembra così reale, che potrebbero essere veramente esistiti nell'Inghilterra di metà Ottocento. Il tutto condito da stralci di poemi, frammenti di lettere, diari e carteggi vari, per fare in modo di coinvolgere emotivamente anche noi spettatori nella ricerca per la soluzione del mistero.La narrazione segue un continuo crescendo, fino ad arrivare ad un finale a cui sicuramente non potremmo aver immaginato per buona parte della lettura."Possessione" non è una lettura per tutti poiché all'inizio potrebbe risultare spiazzante e complicata da seguire: lo stile di scrittura è da considerarsi erudito, ricco di descrizioni e riferimenti letterari. Quindi non aspettatevi una lettura scorrevole e leggera, ma è da mettere in conto quella lentezza necessaria per godere appieno della storia.
2133330593	Нарешті добралася до цього роману (навіть соромно зізнатися). Що тут скажеш.. Рівень стилізаторської майстерності, як і просто майстерності, - захмарний.Авторка грається в літературу, і робить це так легко і вишукано, що кайфуєш разом із нею. Сторінка за сторінкою.Британська література at its best.
7655239638	*sobs*
210852707	1 star for the first 300 pages2 stars for the next 100 pages3 stars for the last 150 pagesI guess that all averages out to two stars. Possession is a book about two academics, Roland and Maud, who each are researching a different deceased poet, Ash and LaMott. During some routine research, Roland finds a letter from Ash that suggests a romantic interest in a woman, not his wife. And with that find, a mystery is launched. Who does Ash love (not a huge spoiler at all to tell you LaMott) and what happened between them? In parallel, Roland and Maud develop their own romantic interest in one another during the course of trying to determine what really happened.This book won the Booker Prize. It's a real literary critics' kind of book. The tale is told through narration, letters, and journals. And the characters are revealed and developed through the same, plus a huge does of poetry.There's no doubt that Byatt put a LOT of work into this book. And her approach is very creative. But does a lot of work and a dose of creativity really mean she deserves the Booker? Frankly, I vote no.The first 300 pages are breathtakingly boring. Byatt's style is suffocating. She describes everything in excruciating detail to the point where the poor plot is smothered. Then there are some letters upon which the entire story hinges, and in these letters, Ash and LaMott are discussing poetry. In some kind of Victorian acadamese (I made that word up). But you can't just skim them because every 700 words or so, there is buried something of interest, without which the story will not hang together.In addition to being seriously dull, I really feel that Byatt didn't develop her primary characters well at all. There are some supporting players who are much more interesting, and you actually have a sense of them as real human beings. But the four main characters . . .I could care less about any of them until the very, very last chapter, where Ash suddenly seems like a three dimensional person.The book has, what some may call, a twist or a surprise at the end. After 550 pages, I didn't care, and I doubt you will either. However, the last 150 pages or so are by far the best part of the book, since that's where Byatt actually unravels some of the mysteries. And I actually thought the plot was reasonably interesting . . .just crushed under the overly pretentious language, the poetry, and so much superfluous academic observations. The end was plot driven and that held my interest a bit.A lot of folks thought Byatt was clever in her use of two different voices for the poets . . .I didn't see it at all. They both sounded like the most pompous snobby people you could ever meet through the vast majority of the book, especially in their letters. I am not a student of poetry so maybe I just didn't appreciate the fine work there - - but I ended up just skipping the poems because I had no idea what they meant.A lot of people LOVED this book. So before deciding whether to read it, you need to check out those reviews yourself. I'd hate to put people off something they might LOVE. And I think there was at least one PBTer who felt it was terrific.In the end, I actually think I did like Possession the slightest bit better than Love in the Time of Cholera (my gold standard for books that had me going WTF). It was creative. There were a few nicely drawn minor characters. And from time to time, it read like a regular book - - and at those small points, it was reasonably interesting.But I really can't bring myself to recommend this to a friend . . .
1530806997	would have been a 4.5 star had it not been for absolute brilliance of Ms.Byatt in concocting a tale that is akin to the optical illusion puzzles in magazines. The book has depth and layers. And how! The Brick and Mortar:The book is an ode to writing and covers every form of writing - from love letters, diary entries, suicide notes, travel journals, poems, fairy tales, narratives, biography, research paper. It goes on to explore the plot with every possible connotation of the term 'possession' - of artifacts, of a researcher on the researched and vice versa, the obsession and single mindedness of pursuit, mediums and seances, demoniacal power over one, belonging to own etc. All of this would have set the book clubs scrambling. In short - a work of genius!The Soul:At the center of it all is a buried romance. And the quest for truth by the living through the pages of the dead, in search of meaning and connection. The book grips you and you want to know what happened to Ash and Christabel while worrying about Maud and Mitchell. The characterisation is beautiful and even Ellen Ash and Blanche Glover take life through the words. The romance is never over stated and the book hooks you into a literary journey. The blurring of facts and the trivia about legends is fascinating. Set in the background of academic research, the author has her fun in drawing caricatures of researchers and puts them not even short of grave robbery. Academicians and historians obsessed with their subject go beyond the works to the why and hence the race to interpretation. This is, I imagine, the truth of not just scholars but also readers. For example would you take something away from JK Rowling if you knew her thesis was on the works of Tolkien (it was). Would you not read into the narcissistic admiration of a man's beauty in "Picture of Dorian Gray" if you were told Oscar Wilde was tried for Homosexuality. Such is the intellect of humans.It takes a good book to make the reader empathize with the characters. It takes a brilliant book to make the reader invest emotionally into a book. This is a brilliant book.Oh, the initial deduction of 0.5 stars was for some of the poems that went over my head and exposed my lacuna with the poetry form of writing. Nothing to take credit away from the author.
1590560387	Много интересна книга, в смисъл като литературен феномен. Част от действието се развива във Викторианска Англия и според мен това е причината стилът на целия роман, дори в частта, която се развива в съвременността (отпреди няколко десетилетия) да използва по викториански претруфен стил. Това е добре, разбирам замисъла, възхищавам се на умението, с което е изпълнен, но аз от този стил вече напълно съм отвикнала. Първите триста страници (от почти 700) едва ги изтърпях (особено многословните, умозрителни и витиевати писма на двама от главните герои). Да, факт е, че стилът на писмата е напълно достоверен за хора от тази епоха и с този социален статус. Към края вече ми беше трудно да оставя книгата. Романът има много сложна и прецизно изработена повествователна структура с използването на различни техники: честа смяна на гледните точки (и добро проникване в тях), смесване на епистоларна част, стихове и традиционен разказ, постепенно разкриване на цялата история, към края имаше и напрежение. Изобщо: забележителна книга, от която изпитах естетическа наслада, в която обаче не се влюбих. Искам да спомена и това, че българското издание на книгата (издателство Агата-А) е изработено с голяма грижа: преводачката Димана Илиева, редакторът Ангел Игов, преводачите на стиховете Валентин Кръстев и Ангел Игов, оформлението, добрата коректорска работа – всички са си свършили отлично работата. Само към дребния шрифт имам забележки, но при 700 страници - разбирам.
20428251	Unreadable. I had to stop. The characters were blah and the story moved at a snail's pace. There are so many more books to read I couldn't waste any more time on this one.Still reading... It started out pretty good, set in London, Roland, a young research assistant is looking at musty old books in the London library and finds a letter written by a famous 19th century poet (named Ash) to an unknown woman.. what then ensues is a literary quest to discover the woman for whom the letter was intended all the while hiding the existence of the letter from other colleagues in the field who are studying the poet. Now about 200 odd pages in (out of 550) I find the plot slowing as the main character has now discovered who the letter was to (a reclusive female poet of the same era named Christabel) and has teamed up with a woman, Maud, who has made her academic life out of interpreting the supposed female-centric, sexual overtones of Christabel's writing. The academic duo have now found a collection of the poets' entire correspondance and are reading them together. An inordinate amount of pages was devoted to describing Maud's glorious golden hair and how it is a symbol of her rampant and vulnerable sexuality that she trys to hid by keeping it imprisoned in a large head scarf except for those moments when her hair is needed to further the tepid romance between her and Roland.So far I am feeling.. Eh.
657248687	This is a difficult book to review because I simultaneously like it and don't like it. I read two versions of the story. First, I read the ebook version which was quite long and tedious. I've done my fair share of scholarship and the book just brought back so many boring memories. The other version was the BBC heavily edited version that was also dramatized. What a relief that was! It just goes to show that every book can benefit from a monster-load of editing! I could actually enjoy a few love stories without hundreds and hundreds of pages of allusions within several fictitious poets' compendiums steeped in their stifling cultural morasses. Wow, what a difference that is! Sure, bright writing is as bright writing does, but I have to say that a really bright writer would have couched her writing in a style that doesn't actively try to alienate by tedious scholarship. I mean, I've been a fantasy fan for many years. I can make a leap of faith with few clues and just assume that these characters are genuine scholars (of fake poets).Sigh. Yes, yes, I'm duly impressed with the amount of tedium the author poured into the book. Congratulations. Of course, to be fair, we could have substituted all of the poems and scholarship with zombies and trying to survive at all odds while having a love affair and both novels would have had the same effect. They were both survival fictions.
