662870422	"Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human."I actually received an 100-page preview of Vicious a few months prior to reading the full version and picked it up with absolutely zero expectations. Then, suddenly, I was catapulted into a world that did more than keep the promises of the blurb - A masterful, twisted tale of ambition, jealousy, betrayal, and superpowers, set in a near-future world - but also introduced me to a memorable cast of characters, an exciting plot, and some of the most addictive writing I've ever read.Schwab's other books never appealed to me but I suddenly find myself wanting to see if all her writing is like this. Some books just have that spark. It's a compulsive readability in the writing style; it demands to be read; it demands that you keep turning pages like a crazy person. You can't really explain or define it, you can only point to examples of where it exists. And it exists here. Everything about this book draws you in: the characters, the plot, the way the book moves fluidly from past to present... everything. I can't tell you how much Vicious surprised me, and I can't find words to explain just how exciting, gripping and beautifully twisted it is. But I shall try.Vicious falls into the adult/new adult category as opposed to young adult. To break it down simply, this is a story about superheroes and supervillains and how it isn't always so easy to tell which is which. Victor questions at one point:"The paper called Eli a hero.The word made Victor laugh. Not just because it was absurd, but because it posed a question. If Eli really was a hero, and Victor meant to stop him, did that make him a villain?" It's all about the ambitions, the betrayals and the jealousies of people who are far too clever for their own good. People who work together to obtain power but whose friendship is torn apart by said power. The characters - including the protagonist - all have dark sides hiding beneath their calm, collected exteriors. Perhaps this will put some readers off, but I was absolutely fascinated by the exploration of the fine line between the good guys and the bad guys.The story is split between the present and ten years ago. The present tells of Victor, an escaped convict, who is determined to find his old friend-turned-enemy and deal out the revenge that is burning inside him. Flash back to ten years ago and Victor is a bright, young university student who is practically inseparable from his best friend - Eli. When Eli proposes a plan to discover whether EOs (Extra-Ordinaries) exist, he and Victor become partners in a scheme that will take them to hell and back and maybe, just maybe, grant them supernatural abilities. I adored the complex friendship between the two men that hovered somewhere between admiration and bitter jealousy and how this developed as they grew and became more obsessed with power and their own view of right and wrong.I loved Vicious, I really did. I'd easily consider it one of my favourite novels of 2013 and probably the one that surprised me most. It's just a wild and addictive story with no throwaway characters. Everyone in the book has their own problems to face, especially when it comes to some of the moral struggles that go with having godlike powers. I can't wait for more people to read it.
5341395874	”victor vale was not a fucking sidekick.” when the anti-hero becomes the main character, seeking revenge after 10 years in prison. vicious follows victor and eli, two unhinged, arrogant, competitive “platonic” college friends turned enemies after a dangerous academic experiment leaves them both with superpowers. now all they do is manipulate and kill everyone on sight and are hellbent on killing each other the whole book. 90% of victor and eli’s problems could have been resolved if they just kissed. i so badly wanted an enemies to lovers moment!! — the story was told in non-linear timelines. we had 10 years ago, 2 nights ago, last week and back to the present where victor has just escaped prison, takes in a 12 year old girl who he found on the side of the road (he practically co-parents her w his big scary hacker but he rly is a big warm cuddly teddy bear prison bodyguard husband mitch) now he has one goal in mind: go after eli and make him suffer for putting him in prison and ruining his life. “plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human" ➳ victor vale:my beloved mentally ill blondie a complete menace w questionable morals is officially the love of my life. victor doesn't see himself as a good person but he believes himself to be justified in his path for deserved revenge against his so called best friend who sent him to prison for 10 years. he is the most perfect anti-hero i’ve ever encountered!! i will always fall in love with sociopathic characters, but he rly is a softie especially when it comes to sydney. people can see he only uses her for her powers but we all know he will always protect her <33 ➳ eli cardale:eli has to be the most hypocritical, delusional, deranged, self-obsessed and the most “pick me” little psycho ever. he believes he has to kill other EOs (ExtraOrdinaries) because “god” told him to and god is always on his side. eli believes his EO powers are safe bc he can’t harm anyone unlike the other EOs.. and he is a hero for “eliminating” them. no hun, you’re just delusional. but i will be bringing eli screaming “i am a hero! i saved you all!” while being dragged out by the police to the afterlife with me, that scene brings me sm peace!! — eli's entire existence was predicated on using his god given gifts to fight demons, yet the only thing he was fighting against was his own demons (bisexuality) ”when no one understands, that’s usually a good sign that you’re wrong.” this book was literally godsend,, it will have you questioning who the real villain is the entire book. you can understand why every character has a clear motivation on why they do fucked up things by the end of the book. i rly liked the concept of this book, the whole dying and getting powers after experiencing a near death experience was very interesting to read about. i also loved the found family aspect between victor, mitch, sydney and dol. this was a very compelling story, neither of the main characters are good people - this is what made this book a lot better bc you don’t know who you are supposed to be rooting for.
729148703	A Tale of Two Sociopaths.One just ever so slightly more lovable than the other...This was right up my alley with all the Create-A-Superhero stuff!The reality, of course, is that neither of these guys are heroes. Victor and Eli were college roommates who experimented with a theory that Eli had about how Extra Ordinary people were created. Turns out he was right. Ta-da! Due to some unfortunate factors, Victor's transformation doesn't go quite as smoothly as Eli's. And because of that little snafu, Victor ends up spending the better part of a decade in prison. Where he plots his revahnge revenge! The whole story unfolds in flashbacks, and I think the less I say about that, the more you'll enjoy reading about how it all went down in the past.I do think you should know that neither of them are sympathetic characters, but you do end up rooting for Victor to win.I gotta say, I thought the ending was a little underwhelming, but that may only be because I thought the rest of the book was so good that it didn't quite meet my expectations. Still, I ended up tearing through this thing in a few days and thought it was (overall) a pretty fantastic story.Definitely Recommended!*Edit:This is one of my oldest son's favorite books. He informed me the other day that he found this review while searching Goodreads at school (OMG! What the hell are they thinking giving these kids access to book sites!?), and he proceeded to tell me that I was wrong. As children do...Apparently, the ending was not at all underwhelming. It whelmed just fine, thank you very much.So there.2024I just finished listening to the audiobook version from Macmillan Audio narrated by Jeremy Arthur, and it. is. excellent. <--- if you're into that kind of thing
1297396896	You know that feeling of nostalgia you get when you're reading one of your favorite books? That's how I felt the whole time I was reading this. It was like I already knew this world and these characters. And that's not to say that they were bland or stereotypical (because they were extremely complex and compelling), but it was as if they were already somehow part of my life. I don't even have the words to describe how much I loved this. It was perfect, absolutely perfect.
702335869	WHAT THE HELL EVERYONE IS SO MESSED UP. BUT THATS WHAT MADE IT SO AMAZING.
574871477	The easiest 5 stars I've ever given. Full review to come! I just need to gather my thoughts.
2696318814	victor vale is my husband and sydney is our adopted child
6317111642	4.5⭐️ for now but honestly it’ll probably be a 5 star when I reread it
2681740494	5/5 ⭐ Buckle up, there's a rant ahead. You know a book is going to obsess the hell out of me when I fall in love with the main character from the first chapters and the main character happens to be a villain.*Whoopsie*It’s true.I was barely three chapters in, the time was 1 in the morning and I already decided that I am definitely going to love this. And big surprise, I did.You know why? Lemme tell you.Because there is something completely mesmerising about the way V.E. Schwab writes. If you are not completely hooked from the first pages then there must have happened something (wrong) with either you or V.E. (maybe something ExtraOrdinary, who knows!).There is madness in this woman’s mind and I think I might go mad out of my own mind if I were to have a glimpse on what’s going on in V.E. Schwab Circus of Freaks – her brain edition. The atmosphere is heavy, you can feel it from the beginning and it just persists through the whole book. It is macabre and dark and evil and a bit psycho but that’s the whole point of it.I love the way the world is built to look like our real world, but it is completely twisted and reinvented so that we live in something we think we know but we actually don’t because it is completely new and strange – a possible near-future, if you will. There is some sort of fake-security about this world.The storyline tends to jump from one time to another – in present, two days earlier, one week earlier, ten years earlier etc. etc. The chapters and the time switches alternates and it feels like they are having a conversation that you must pay attention to in order to discover all the little puzzle pieces and put them together to form the whole picture.It also breaks the writing style routine a bit, makes it funkier.The funny thing about this book is that there are no good guys, basically. “Some could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labelled a villain for trying to stop them.” It is all about perspective. Good and bad are always subjective aspects of one’s life and they always need a determinative factor to keep them going around in circles. Good is never good enough for some, or too good for others. Good can be twisted and turned into bad. Good could be worse than bad. Bad might not be as bad as it seems. Bad could be terrible.At some point, those two notions could be interchangeable. It’s all about semantics, really. And that little fact just adds to the whole story some spice. The way the characters are being shaped in this book is fabulous.The characters themselves are some sort of stereotypes, but there is something about them that makes them feel different, unique. And that something might be the skilful character building.I don’t know how my obsession with Victor Vale could get any deeper, but I honestly think it’ll find a way.I love Victor Vale, my perfect beautiful villain.Victor is a morally degraded, morally grey, morally detached evil genius, constructed with such a character depth that I honestly do not meet very often. Inside of him, there is a battle between the cruelty and coldness of a predator and the ache to do the right thing. Not good, but right.He is complex and fascinating. On the inside, Victor has doubts, struggles, tries his best to meet the ultimate outcome of his plans. Everything that comes out of his erosive thoughts though seems calculated, perfect, mischievous, sexy. Yes, you read correctly. Sexy.I find Victor Vale extremely hot when he is playing predator. It’s absolutely mesmerising and I am not going to apologise for it. That’s a twisted kind of magnetism that no one could resist. On the other hand, Eli Ever repels me. He is supposed to be a hero. Well, I think he is not. And I sort of disliked him from the beginning. He is a hypocrite and even though I find him bad, he is not good at being bad. He is just bad.The problem is that Eli wasn’t made to be evil and becoming the way he is now ruined him for good. Eli was made to be the all-American charming-smile guy, but when he pushes his luck further than he can control it, then the frustration is greater than anticipated. An inner struggle like Eli’s could break down one’s morals forever, turning them into actual monsters. “Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” With great power comes great responsibility and not everyone can handle either of those. The outcome could be destroying. And everyone is vicious when it comes to power.Betrayal? Revenge? Hatred?Yes. All of those come in the same package with viciousness. Power makes us hungry and degrades us. It dehumanises.The proof? Two friends like Victor and Eli wanted to kill each other because of the incredible power they both possess. There’s no friendship when it comes to power. Only hunger.On a more positive note, this book comes with a big friendly chocolate milk lover giant with beefy arms, shaved head and tattoos, a cute little girl with a morbid power and a giant black doggo named Dol (more like Doll, if you ask me). Also, in an abnormal way, I find Serena kind of a baddie.To hell with it, this is so complex and good and bad and smart and everything you need in life.New favourite book with new favourite characters for my lists? You bet your cute bums. V.E. Schwab did it again.
2059043244	”Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labelled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.”(Just in case you actually want to read my full review. *lol* You can read it here!)This is easily one of the best books I’ve read in 2019 and that’s quite something, because I already read so many other awesome books this year. To give “Vicious” 5 stars was a no-brainer though and I’m very glad that my reading buddy saw it the same way. As it seems we were both hooked right from the beginning and the longer we read, the more we immersed ourselves in the story.I thought long and hard about the many reasons I liked this so much and I think it’s mostly due to the way it was written. V.E. Schwab made her story some sort of puzzle and the longer you read, the more is revealed and every piece eventually falls into place. It wasn’t until I started to write down a few of the quotes that I finally realized why I could relate to her writing style so much. XD It felt like reading one of my forum role-play games. *lol*Let me explain a little bit more: There are people that will write short posts that cover the basics and then there are people that will write an entire character with its background story and play it out in 900 – 1.000 word posts that stretch over the course of years, sometimes even decades. Yes, you already guessed right, I’m the latter one. ;-P And so it’s no surprise I was intrigued by V.E. Schwab’s handiwork. There’s a certain depth to her characters you never actually see on the pages, but it’s all there, in their actions, the way they behave. In the way they talk and interact with each other. There’s an entire background story and we get it piece by piece, little by little, but never all of it and to say I was captivated by this would be the understatement of the century. XD I lived and breathed for it, I tasted blood and I crave for more!!! <3Next time I’m at the library I’m going to pre-order “Vengeful” and if it’s only half as good as “Vicious” I shall be more than just fine! ;-) This said, I’ll go right into my character’s section because damn, there’s a lot to discuss! XDThe characters: Welcome to my spoilery spoiler section! Take a seat, make yourself comfortable and enjoy the show! Be warned though, I’m at least as fierce as Victor when it comes to book characters and just like him I won’t sugar-coat things and spoil you not only thoroughly but also relentlessly! ;-P Eli Cardale (Ever):”Well, when you wonder something,” said Eli, “doesn’t that mean part of you wants to believe in it? I think we want to prove things, in life, more than we want to disprove them. We want to believe.”I didn’t like Eli which actually made him the perfect villain. *lol* The funny thing is that I’m pretty certain he’s more human and compassionate than Victor, yet this also seems to be the main reason why he’s worse than him. Am I already confusing you? XD Okay, let me put it this way, whilst Victor’s analytical mind controls his actions the same can’t be said about Eli. When the shit hits the fan Eli is following his gut feeling and because he believes he’s doing the right thing he goes through with it and never second guesses his decisions. I’d even go as far as to say that Eli is some sort of religious fanatic and that he sanctions his actions by his belief. And what is more human and more powerful than people’s beliefs? There are centuries of history that prove how many bad things have been done in the name of religion and Eli’s character is some kind of embodiment of it. He lives by his principles and this doesn’t only make him a very dangerous man, it also makes him very human. Eli is on a mission and everyone who interferes with it will be the next victim on his Ever-growing list. ;-) (see what I did there?! *lol*)”On the surface, Eli seemed perfectly normal, but now and then Victor would catch a crack, a sideways glance, a moment when his roommate’s face and his words, his look and his meaning, would not line up. Those fleeting slices fascinated Victor. It was like watching two people, one hiding in the other’s skin. And their skin was always too dry, on the verge of cracking and showing the color of the thing beneath.””A hero. Wasn’t he? Heroes saved the world from villains, from evil. Heroes sacrificed themselves to do it. Was he not bloodying his hands and his soul to set the world right? Did he not sacrifice himself every time he stripped away an EO’s stolen life?””I died begging for the strength to survive, and it was granted. But it’s a trade, Professor, with God or the devil, and I’ve paid for my gift with the lives of my friends. Every EO has sold a part of themselves they can never have back. Don’t you see?” He knelt beside Lyne, whose fingers twitched. “I can’t let anyone else sin so heinously against nature.”Victor Vale:”She watched him as he worked, his touch impossibly light, as if he was afraid of breaking her. Everything about him was light – his skin, his hair, his eyes, his hands as they danced through the air above her skin, touching her only when absolutely necessary.”I absolutely ADORED AND LOVED Victor Vale!!! <333 What an intriguing and morally grey character! I just loved the way he thought! His analytical and cunning mind was everything I ever craved for and even more and I just couldn’t get enough of his character. I loved that he was so unapologetic and that he knew exactly who he was. Yes, he tried to blend in with the others, but he never claimed to be something that he wasn’t. If you ask me I’d say Victor is a psychopath, at least if you consider all the typical signs of it. Then again Eli certainly was one too. He might have been more empathic than Victor but whilst Vic knew what was expected of him, Eli ultimately seemed more inclined to ignore human morals than to follow them. I loved how Victor questioned his actions, how he paused to think if what he did was right or wrong, how he weighted both sides against each other and then eventually decided to do what his logic told him. He was vicious and brutal, but he could also be gentle and caring and boy, did I live for that moral ambiguity. *lol* ”The paper called Eli a hero.The word made Victor laugh. Not just because it was absurd, but because it posed a question. If Eli really was a hero, and Victor meant to stop him, did that make him a villain?He took a sip of his drink, tipped his head back against the couch, and decided he could live with that.””Victor watched his friend, mesmerized by the transformation. He himself could mimic most emotions and pass them off as his, but mimicking only went so far, and he knew he could never match this … fervor.””You can’t kill me, Victor,” said Eli. “You know that.”Victor’s smile widened as he buried his knife between Eli’s ribs. “I know,” he said loudly. He had to speak up over the screams. “But you’ll have to indulge me. I’ve waited so long to try.”Sydney:”That’s what Sydney was giving these people. A second chance. Her fingers hovered over the dead man’s chest for a moment as she wondered if he deserved a second chance, then chided herself. Who was she to judge or decide or grant or deny? Simply because she could, did that mean she should?”Poor little Sydney! I felt so sorry for her! She didn’t choose to have a power like that but she was hunted for it nevertheless. I found it interesting that she was so young but already asked herself the right questions. In some way that made her a good counterweight to Victor and Eli. I mean there is this powerful girl and she has no idea what she can do with her abilities or what she’s capable of. She was a very strong character though and I loved her for her defiance. <3 It takes guts to live with a man like Victor and she might have questioned his actions but she was never afraid of him. XDSerena:”She looked at Victor’s profile one last time, and tried to picture the man who had once been Eli’s friend, who had brought him back, made him what he was, saved her sister … and for a moment, as she finished dialing Eli’s number, she almost wished he stood a fighting chance.”Now Serena was a character that caused me to think long and hard as well. On the one hand I liked her for standing up to Eli by charming him to do her will, and on the other hand I disliked her for helping him to find and eliminate his targets. If she was so good at compelling people why didn’t she try to stop Eli for good? She played him, yet at the same time she did what he wanted her to do. Why? Did she really think that this was the only way to save her own skin? Did she truly believe that EO’s are dangerous and that they deserve to die? Her character posed so many questions and to my chagrin none of them were answered. >_< She definitely had one of the best scenes in this book though. The moment Victor killed her and quoted Ulysses was priceless!! <3 The relationships & ships:Victor & Eli:”You asked me if I ever wanted to believe in something. I do. I want to believe in this. I want to believe that there’s more.” Victor sloshed a touch of whiskey over the edge of his glass. “That we could be more. Hell, we could be heroes.”“We could be dead,” said Eli.“That’s a risk everyone takes by living.”Ohh those two gave me a lot to wonder about. I’m convinced Victor was in love with Eli and that this was the reason why he wanted his revenge so badly. I mean he was betrayed by the person he loved and to make it even worse Eli didn’t even bother to hear him out. He didn’t give him the benefit of the doubt, no, he ratted him out to the police the moment he knew his girlfriend had died. It was like Eli always expected Victor to go off the rails and only waited for an opportunity to turn on him. Funnily enough it turned out that Eli was the one that actually went off the rails in the end. After all Eli’s girlfriend was the only person Victor killed and this was by accident and not intentional. The same certainly couldn’t be said for Eli though. He killed his victims on purpose and went after them with a vengeance. Sure, once Victor got out of prison his death tally went up as well, he never killed without a purpose or reason though. Which is the main difference between those two. Victor always considered the pros and cons while Eli acted as judge and executioner and didn’t even give his victims a chance to defend themselves, let alone to speak. Now that Eli is in prison I can’t help but wonder what’s going to happen next. I guess I’ll find out once I get my hands on a copy of “Vengeful”. ;-P”He and Eli were bonded, by blood and death and science. They were alike, more so now than ever. And he had missed Eli. He wanted to see him. And he wanted to see him suffer. He wanted to see the look in Eli’s eyes when he lit them up with pain. He wanted his attention. Eli was like a thorn beneath Victor’s skin, and it hurt. He could turn off every nerve in his body, but Victor couldn’t do a damned thing about the twinge he felt when he thought of Cardale.””I don’t want to see Serena,” said Sydney.“I know,” said Victor. “But I want to see Eli.”“Why?” she asked. “You can’t kill him.”“That may be.” His fingers curled around the shovel. “But half the fun is trying.”Sydney & Victor:”I’m cold,” she said.“I’m Victor,” he said, and she offered him a small, exhausted flicker of a smile.Their relationship was so precious! <3 Victor became some sort of father figure for Sydney and even though she knew that he had a bad moral compass she still trusted him and felt safe with Victor. I loved that he was always so honest with her and didn’t even try to sugar-coat things. He gave her room to come to her own conclusions and he provided a safe environment to live in. In some way that made him an amazing father even though he certainly wasn’t the best choice to raise a kid like her. *lol* Still, those two worked because Sydney acted as some sort of conscience for him and that ultimately made him a better person. XD I wonder if their relationship is going to change after she brought him back from the dead and if yes in which direction it’s going to head. Oh and I just realized that Vic joined Eli in not being able to age. ;-)”Sydney, look at me.” He rested his hands on the car roof and leaned in. “No one is going to hurt you. Do you know why?” She shook her head, and Victor smiled. “Because I’ll hurt them first.””Serena hadn’t told Sydney to go home. She hadn’t told her to run away. She’d told her to go somewhere safe. And over the course of the last week, safe had ceased to be a place for Sydney, and had become a person. Specifically, safe had become Victor.”Serena & Eli:”She pulled away enough to hold him with her cold blue eyes. He could see the devil in them, silver-tongued and cunning, and Eli thought, not for the first time, that he should have killed her when he had the chance.”Serena and Eli had one of the most abusive relationships I ever witnessed. They both abused each other in equal measure and this was weirdly fascinating. Their dynamic was crazy and they both didn’t hesitate to use their powers in order to get what they wanted. I think in some way they even loved each other, yet they both couldn’t change the way they were. Eli craved to kill Serena but was fascinated by her and Serena wanted to stay alive but couldn’t seem to be able to turn away from Eli. What a stalemate. XD Wicked faerie tongues (like mine) would say Victor relieved them from the trouble of killing each other and they might be right. *lol*Conclusion:I loved this and I could kick myself for not reading it sooner! “Vicious” was the amazing start of a compelling story and I can’t wait to read its sequel “Vengeful”. Morally grey characters, a captivating storyline and the omnipresent question of what is right and what is wrong made this a truly thrilling journey! I don’t know about you, but I want more! ;-)Last but not least I want to thank Mr. Babygreys for another great buddy read! It’s always a pleasure to read books with you and I’m glad our reading habits and preferences are so similar. *lol* We seem to be on a roll, let’s keep those books coming! ;-P
3856042764	the only book to ever exist
3627088866	When I finished the very last page of Vicious, I felt a breathless exhilaration course through my body in a stream of anxious energy. I had an urge to get up and pace with impatience. I started this book in the morning and finished it that same evening when I finally looked up from my book, shocked by the dark sky. It was like exiting a movie theater after watching a film. Those hours you spent in the blackness of the theater are not actually part of time. They feel like a slice of an alternate world.And that's how I felt after finishing Vicious. Drained, but full of impatient adrenaline. This book follows a man named Victor Vale, who is obsessed with revenge. Eli, his old best friend and classmate, is now his rival. They are both EOs - ExtraOrdinaries - with shocking capabilities that could doom or save them both. What makes a villain? If Eli is evil and Victor is opposing him, does that make Victor a hero? Does his intention excuse his actions? All the characters are villains in their own way. Eli because he betrayed his own kind. Victor because he's a cold-blooded murderer. They may have started out with good intentions, but in the end, they are both terrible people. The grey morality is stunning. It's not what you might expect and it creeps up on you. The atmosphere - haunting, eerie, dark - is helped by the writing, which is vividly malicious and clever. Aided by the alternating timeline, which builds mystery, the careful crafting of Vicious is apparent. And oh, how I love the characters. Eli is a crafty, unpredictable megalomaniac. Victor is a calculating, merciless killer. They are my cinnamon rolls and I must protect them. That sounds wrong. I love how Schwab kept us guessing. I loved how she made me feel sympathy for both sides and both situations. In the end, I wasn't sure whose side I was on. Vicious stayed with me for long after I finished. It haunts me. ~credit for all images~ 4.5 stars
2628541214	BAMMM!!! BAMMM!!BAMMM!! Nope this sound is not coming from my husband who repeatedly hits the axe to the kitchen door to save from cooking another disastrous, poisonous dish!BAAAMMM!!! And again this sound doesn’t belong to my crazy neighbor who sings all day and parties at night, finally younger version of Robert Downey Jr. runs into his house with his car but sorry this is not also the voice of a car’s crushing into wall.BAMM!! Yes, you got it right! I’m hitting my thick head against the wall as a punishment not to read this series before. ( I firstly did it when I start “Bear and Nightingale” trilogy which turned into my all time favorite series. So yes, life is too short to procrastinate to read the best written books! Stop scrolling your phone or surfing through the channels air the shows for dumbs. Just read and read and read! I think this might be my quote or motto!)This is my upgraded review: And here we go: Victor and Eli’s competition to eliminate each other might be reminded you; Charles Xavier and Erik Lehsherr’s never ending rivalry ( personally I always had a hard time to choose between two hot man, with his sexy Scottish charisma McAvoy already stole my heart years ago but don’t forget Fassbender’s amazing Irish and German heritage, we saw the big parts of it at his movie “Shame”)So this book is a quite mash-up of X-Men – Boys ( because they are not originally super humans, they’re created at the labs as like Boys’ notorious super humans who are also bad guys like these two on this book!) –Flatliners ( if you skip Oliver Platt’s character, this reminds me of Bacon- Sutherland and Roberts trio. Two guys and a smart girl triangle)Story-telling is fast paced, stunning, entertaining. There are too many details seem like unimportant but you have to pay attention when you read some of Schwab’s books because every detail means something at the end to complete the entire puzzle and see the whole picture.All the characters have too many dark sides, complex, suffering from jealousy, hatred, narcissism and having sociopathic tendencies make most of the readers detest them and skip this book but I actually find this realistic and sensible because this book is not the heroes’ story who want to do the right thing. This is a battle between the pure evil and lighter evil: They both do whatever it takes to defeat the other.I also loved the sisters’ complex, deadly, love-hate relationship and cliffhanger at the end was the fantastic touch. So time to move on the next book! This author is evil master of dark thrilling, enjoyable books!
4634052399	˗ˏˋ˚₊· ͟͟͞͞➞ 𝕍𝕚𝕔𝕥𝕠𝕣 𝕍𝕒𝕝𝕖 𝕨𝕒𝕤 𝕟𝕠𝕥 𝕒 𝕗𝕦𝕔𝕜𝕚𝕟𝕘 𝕤𝕚𝕕𝕖𝕜𝕚𝕔𝕜. ᯓ★ˎˊ˗ 5 glowing stars, again!! Ugh. I love this book so freaking much! ₊˚ෆ “Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” ༊·˚Normally I'm not really a big fan of 'super powers' but I love magical powers. I'm just not big on comic books or super heroes these days - unless of course, VE Schwab serves up a fantasy/sci-fi duology with comic book vibes and morally grey characters galore. Now we're talking!The first time I read this was about a year or two ago and I was pulled into the world immediately, stayed up all night reading with one eye open and one eye closed from being too dry to keep up. Love, love, love this duology and Victor Vale, is of course - not a fucking sidekick. So when my bsf decided to give it a go, of course I had to re-read it with her. I mean, hello- the epic-ness.╰┈➤ 𝓠𝓾𝓲𝓬𝓴 𝓢𝓾𝓶𝓶𝓪𝓻𝔂College roommates Victor and Eli compete against each other in a deadly game of who can die first and come back with superpowers. And then it works, but someone dies and doesn’t come back. Ten years later, Victor breaks out of prison, determined to get his revenge on his former best friend and sellout, Eli. The book covers the past and the present in a time shifting format, as we see where they were and how they came to be.╰┈➤ 𝓜𝔂 𝓣𝓱𝓸𝓾𝓰𝓱𝓽𝓼I ended up breezing through Vicious again. The short and fast paced chapters make it easy to become absorbed in reading and forget what day or time it is. Combine that with the fact that chapters skip around in the timeline, it felt organic. Almost like you were living your daily life and kept returning to old memories. Schwab always made sure we knew what we had to know as the story unfolds before us. Vicious is submerged in secrets.One of the major aspects of this story that I love is , aside from an action packed plot which again kept me reading to the next chapter, was the exploration of heroes and villains. The ways these labels are so often interchangeable based on who’s telling the story.The characters are so fascinating and entertaining. Eli's logic never applies to him and of course - Victor is the main mf character lol. Needless to say, all of the characters are very intriguing. There’s a great balance of character action, development, and introspection. Not to mention there are fabulous writing touches and twists which made me appreciate this story so much. If you enjoy stories filled with morally grey characters, the weirdest of found families, magical abilities and anti-heroes you seriously need to pick this book up.-`♡´- “If Eli really was a hero, and Victor meant to stop him, did that make him a villain?He took a long sip of his drink, tipped his head back against the couch, and decided he could live with that.” 𓂃 ࣪˖ ཐིཋྀ ⋆ ˚｡⋆୨୧˚ Thank you, to my bestest, favorite bestie ♡⃕ 🎀👯‍♀️ Bruna 🌷🧸 for buddy reading this with me!
2504018411	on the scale of black to white, this book falls right down the middle. i have never read something so morally grey, so ethically ambiguous, so downright dark and absolutely pleasant at the same time. goodness me, this book was a trip in the best way possible. i absolutely love the idea of anti-heroes. i love taking characters that we are meant to despise, but end up empathising and somewhat admiring them instead. maybe that makes me personally questionable, but wow. i loved how messed up and arrogant and broken both eli and victor were. their relationship was everything to me. from friends and confidants, to conspiratorial partners, to enemies. their relationship was just so demented and deranged, i couldnt look away. i love how the lines were blurred when it came to them. it was such a unique experience as a reader to see them at their worst and unravel the complex events which led them to that point. this book in its entirety is honestly something else. the concept, the plot, the characters, the writing, the conclusion. i couldnt put this down. and thank the book gods schwab decided to bless us with a sequel that our boys eli and victor so undoubtedly deserve. <3↠ 4.5 stars
1808131757	Vicious (adj.):1) Having the nature or quality of vice or immorality.2) Dangerously aggressive, marked by violence or ferocity.3) Victor Vale. “Victor was out. Victor was free.And Victor was coming for Eli - just as he'd promised he would.” Eli and Victor used to be best friends. Smarter than the rest of the students of Lockland University, they tried to play God. Fascinated by the rumors about EOs, ExtraOrdinary people with supernatural abilities, they studied them at first, but later, they decided to create them. But the sacrifices they hade to make in order to achieve this transformation took something away. Their fear. Their conscience. Victor went to jail because of Eli, but he escaped with one goal in mind. Destroy his nemesis. His best friend. While Eli dedicated his life to the eradication of EOs, since he considered them as something unholy, Victor dedicated his life to revenge. The ultimate fight is inevitable. The question is, who will survive? “But it's a trade, Professor, with God or the devil...” Wow. Vicious was a delicious surprise, the perfect way to start 2017. While I did not enjoy A Darker Shade of Magic as much as I expected, after some coaxing and a mix of curiosity and hope, I decided to give V.E. Schwab another try, and I am so glad I did. I dived into a gripping and wicked tale of revenge and superpowers, with characters who were, well, psychopaths but extremely fascinating, and while the concept reminded me of X-Men and the rivalry between Magneto and Professor X, V.E. Schwab followed a different path. Eli wanted the extermination of his kind. He fancied himself as a hero, a crusader blessed by God to rid the world of these unnatural beings and protect the innocents who were endangered by this lack of balance. Victor, on the other hand, could not care less. He was fixated on his desire to make Eli pay, using his cunning and devious mind, and a young girl with an ability that rattled Eli. A girl also hunted and betrayed. “There are no good men in this game.” In A Darker Shade of Magic, what bothered me was the lack of connection with the characters. In Vicious, I relished this detachment. Victor and Eli were morally grey (borderline black), so I could not actually empathize with them. They were victims of their ambitions and the circumstances, villainous masterminds who, instead of being repulsed, they embraced all the ugly things that had to be done. Even Sydney, the young EO girl, lost her innocence. And so, I savored every time they outmaneuvered each other, every plan and move that led to the final confrontation, mesmerized by the twists and turns, the action, the suspense. And I have to admit that Victor intrigued me in an I-know-you-are-a-bad-person-but-still-I-root-for-you way. “Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” Vicious is an ingenious story I absolutely recommend to all those readers who crave paranormal with a dash of twisted.
1712614685	Two friends in college find a way to develop super powers. Instead of becoming super heroes, they become super villains.Interesting concept and well executed!
1902165598	Vicious is the story of a villain and a hero. Or, that's what it disguises itself as. It's really the story of five different morally grey characters, all out for themselves, battling it out. This is a book that explores the hero / villain dichotomy and promptly shatters it to pieces. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone could be labeled a villain for trying to stop that person. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human. I love books that subvert and explore tropes.Vicious sets itself apart from Schwab's other adult releases with a far faster pace. My main complaint about Darker Shade of Magic was the lack of character-driven plot; events happened to the characters rather than because of them. That's not true here. Every single plot twist is due to an action by a main character.In terms of characters, this book absolutely rocks. Schwab's characters have such clear motivation for everything they do. Not a single character here is particularly good; everyone is a solid chaotic neutral except for Eli, who's one of the best lawful evil antagonists I've ever read. Interlude: Me Ranting About How Much I Love These Characters“they're evil you shouldn't love them” we all have problematic favesVictor is the technical villain, but he's far easier to root for and empathize with. Eli is a believable, well-developed character, but his cruel fanaticism isn't a well-sold brand. Maybe Eli has a moral code and Victor doesn't, but Eli is lying to himself about his motives. Victor is evil, but he's absolutely aware of his place in the narrative, which made him easy to root for. Schwab's development of these characters makes the book's main conflict even more high-stakes. She also shows off her talent for relationship building here; the conflict between Victor and Eli is so dynamic and interesting. The difference between Victor and Eli, he suspected, wasn't their opinion on EOs. It was their reaction to them. Eli seemed intent to slaughter them, but Victor didn't see why a useful skill should be destroyed, just because of its origin. I'm always ready to read about friends-to-enemies relationships, and Victor and Eli's is especially cool. Even more so because they have genuinely touching moments. “Tell you what,” said Victor. “You remember me, and I'll remember you, and that way we won't be forgotten.” But they're not the only interesting, 3-D characters here. Serena and Sydney are two incredibly compelling characters, and their sisterly conflict makes them ever more interesting. Sydney is a 13-year-old girl who can raise the dead. Serena can make everyone around her follow her suggestions. Despite being on “evil” sides, these two girls are so believable and their motivations so clear that it's hard not to root for their respective sides. I hated Eli, yet I rooted for Serena, despite her being on his side. The other side characters are equally as developed. I especially loved Mitch; he's a criminal down on his luck. Possibly my favorite thing was the odd familial dynamic between Mitch, Victor, Sydney, and Dol the dog. The dynamic between Victor and Sydney is totally awesome. Safe had ceased to be a place for Sydney. It had become a person. Specifically, safe had become Victor. (Tell me you didn't cry reading that. You're LYING.)Mitch and Sydney and Mitch and Victor's relationships both stand out as well. “I don't need a bodyguard,” said Victor. “I noticed that,” said Mitch.Victor let out a cough of a laugh. “Yes, well. I don't want everyone else to notice too.”“So what do you want?” he asked.Victor's lips curled into that same dangerous smile. “A friend.” I don't know if I can pick a favorite character here! They're all so interesting and memorable. Definitely recommended for any fans of morally ambiguous antiheroes, and thanks to everyone who wouldn't stop recommending this. Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
1917598190	A week or so ago I asked my feed for reading suggestions featuring strong villainous characters, and this book received nearly unanimous acclaim from the majority of my friends who saw the post and responded. Now, normally I kind of hesitate going into anything with high expectations, but I immediately ran out and bought it and now I just have to take a moment to tip my hat to to all my friends who suggested that I read it. This book was EVERYTHING! I was so engaged by the story I was dreaded the moments when I had to set the book down and go experience that awful thing called a social life. Really, who has time for the real world when there is a totally compelling story just waiting to be finished at home?!Victor and Eli are absolute treasures. They are so wonderfully written. Seriously. They're layered and diverse, while also being infuriatingly mad and deviously cunning at the same time. As far as anti-heros go: Victor was an absolute joy to experience the narrative journey through. Even when he's at his worst you can't help but root for him. Even Eli's decisions were so well crafted. I truly believed the way he rationalizes his behavior. This is characterization done right!Even the supporting cast of characters, Mitch, Syndney, Serena and Dominic are all wonderfully fleshed out. No one's backstory gets skimped out on in favor of pushing events in a certain direction. They're all given compelling backstories that inform on why they rationalize certain things they way they do. We may not always agree with their decisions, but we're given reasons to understand them, which is so important.The pacing of this book is so engaging. I was lost for the first 2 chapters, but once I got used to the narrative device Schwab employs, it got so compelling so quickly! I couldn't get through this book fast enough. I'm a busy dude right now thanks to numerous real life commitments, but I put my other current reads on hold for a few days just so I could carve my way though this book first. I've read some great books already this year, but this book just sort of blew them all out of the water. I actually started this year off by reading my first book ever by Schwab, The Archived and I think it's safe to say that I'm becoming a HUGE fan. I'm definitely moving her Shades of Magic series up my tbr list soon! 5/5 stars & a new favorite for me!Buddy read with the wonderful Inge
5584373057	4.75⭐️ officer, Sydney is the real hero✋🏽🥺
4350411821	Victor Vale is such an icon. He's really doing it all. Commiting murder, dying, undying, breaking out of jail, enacting revenge, being the father of some random child he adopted from the side of the street, having amazing hair, managing to piss of everyone and anyone, being smug 24/7, diabolically plotting to kill his unkillable archnemisis, vandalizing self-help books, and you know what? I completely support him and his endeavors.
2560003623	"If no one else agrees with you, chances are you're wrong."If it's wrong to be in love with Victor Vale then I don't want to be right. Seriously guys, how did you all read this years ago and wait patiently for Vengeful to be published? In all honesty, I never put this one off because of the delayed sequel; in fact, I put it off for so long because hyped books + me typically don't end well. This is one of the VERY few cases where the hype actually is understated. It is precisely the type of book I want to shove into everyone's hands and scream "READ THIS!", because how could you not love it? Obviously I understand that not every book is for everyone so please don't @ me.I don't want to ramble on, because I'm just about the last person to read this book for the first time, but I definitely could fangirl for eternity over this one. Folks, Vicious had everything I could want and need plus more. The characters were outstanding, the premise and plot execution were exquisite, and that final chapter was incredibly satisfying. I can totally see why Queen Schwab expanded Eli and Victor's feud into a sequel; these villains were simply to complex and substantial to confine to a single installment. If you haven't read the book yet, or are looking to do a reread because you haven't gotten to part two, I highly recommend giving the audio version a go. I had a blast listening to the audible version; the narrator had a clean and clear reading voice and did various characters with a talented distinction-no cheeseball accents here! Highly recommended and feel this is in my top 3 audible reads (listens?) of the year!
1459618020	“Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” Friends, this is my fifth book by VE Schwab, and I’ve three starred every single one of them. At this point, it is glaringly obvious that you should take my review(s) of her work with a grain of salt, because it is obviously a “me” thing. I will say that I adore the author, and I want so desperately to fall in love with a book of hers. And even though I thought Vicious would be the one, it sadly wasn’t. But this is a book about two college roommates who are literally experimenting with life and death and that tiny, minuscule, grey area in-between. Ten years later, a story of revenge, heartbreak, and anger is born. Yet, we still get glimpses into what happened at college ten years ago to bring these current ramifications into fruition. “I want to believe that there's more. That we could be more. Hell, we could be heroes.” This book does raise the fascinating question, both in literature and in real life: what makes a hero and what makes a villain? Is it just the light the story is told in? Is the difference that monumental? Is it only a matter of perspective? Victor and Eli really challenge this question, and I adored it. ➽ Victor - Fresh out of jail and will stop at nothing to exact his revenge; the slower the better.➽ Sydney - My favorite character, who needs to be protected at all costs, and is just trying to find her place in a world that has constantly made her feel like she doesn’t belong. ➽ Mitch - I highkey loved this hacker and Victor’s soft friend. ➽ Eli - I actually hated Eli, and I think that’s the point of this book, truly, but his crisis of faith was just too much for me. ➽ Serena - To me, Serena and Sydney were truly the bright, shining stars of this story. And Serena has the coolest power of all the EOs, in my opinion.And these five people’s paths all cross; some because of tangled pasts, but some because of brand new beginnings. And these characters quickly prove that developing superpowers could be pretty damn frightening. Especially when the powers you develop are rooted in who you are and what you need. One thing I do want to briefly mention that I adored was Victor’s love for blackout poetry. I’ve actually never seen a book character have a passion for it, and it really warmed my heart. Every time he would create something, it really would take my breath away. It was such a bright light in the story for me. I read this with a few friends, and the reading was broken down over the course of five days. Day one and day five were both, easily, five star reading days. I loved the start and end of this book more than words. Again, Victoria Schwab is so intelligent, and her ideas are truly a tier above the rest. Sadly, the middle three days I just felt a bit bored, and it only got worse by day four. But the ending? God, I know I shouldn’t, but I desperately want to read Vengeful now. I also really truly loved how the first and last chapter began. I’m always a sucker when authors mirror events and phrases throughout their book(s) and I feel like VE Schwab always successfully does this. And I get goosebumps each and every time. Overall, I get that there is some kind of disconnect between me and this author’s books. And nothing is changing that because, believe me, I truly want to love her work so badly. Like I said above, take this review with a grain of salt because so many of my friends adore this book, and I really implore you to check out some of their amazing reviews: Em, Adriana, CW, Hari, & Mari!Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | Twitch Content and trigger warnings for talk of suicide, attempted suicide, overdosing, self-harm, drug use, murder, animal death, abandonment, and depiction of panic attacks.Buddy read with Mo, Paloma, Julie, & Amber! ❤
3969439973	reading vlog https://youtu.be/cJ9MTlJz82I
1256391395	“There are no good men in this game.”I'm in a Victoria Schwab fever. Can't really blame her though, her novels are amazing!The most interesting thing about Vicious were its characters with their extraordinary abilities and the fact that there is no "good" main character. Both, protagonist and antagonist do ruthless things and leave a trail of violence and death, one more than the other. But I ended up rooting for some of the side characters and - of course - the dog.Eli however really disgusted me. He was ignorant, self-righteous and fanatic. I hate people like him, they make me angry and mad. They remind me of Dolores Umbridge and there is no one in the world of fiction I hate more than her.It also helps that Victoria Schwab is an incredible writer. A master of atmosphere and originality. Someone who creates characters so intiguing and compelling that it's impossible to lose interest in them. Just add some superpowers and you have the perfect story.I'm in love.13/03/2016Aaand we're getting a sequel! Whoop whoop! I'm really happy, since there was so much room left for a follow-up. Can't wait for VengefulFind more of my books on Instagram
5655764164	— 4.5 stars ✰ “when no one understands, that’s usually a good sign that you’re wrong.” vicious is a novel of two former college friends turned enemies, victor and eli. both clever, cunning and eager. their shared obsession of gaining extraordinary abilities will be their friendships downfall. through experiments, they both acquire supernatural powers, but their paths separate and victor lands in prison while eli roams free. ten years later, victor has escaped and is seeking revenge on eli, who is now a renowned hero. a fine line between good and evil, a game of cat and mouse, a morally gray world.the narrative alternates between the past and the present, slowly unraveling the events that led to this very moment. — victor vale. my man. my favorite sociopath. vandalizing his family‘s books, breaking out of jail, seeking revenge, taking care of some random girl he found at the side road, letting her keep a dog they found. name whatever, he’s done it all and i’m here for it. one of the most complex characters out there, driven by a thirst of power and revenge. he is the perfect anti-hero. despite his actions, you will learn to love and root for him. “victor vale was not a fucking sidekick.” — eli. this little hypocrite shit. at the beginning of the book i must say that i was intrigued by his character but wasn’t really fond of him the more i read about him. his double moral annoyed the hell out of me, having a god complex thinking he should eradicate other eo‘s while he himself is one? go fuck yourself <3 i might or might not have shipped eli and victor…you won’t get one villain, one hero. nope, you‘ll get five whole morally grey characters, some with powers, some with secrets, some with twisting thoughts and ideas. but what’s better than that, right? schwab‘s writing will pull you in, have you questioning who is the real villain or hero, keep you hooked til the very last page. it felt like watching a tv show and i instantly connected with the characters. i loved the last line of the book and can't wait to read the sequel!
1674077866	I was supposed to be reading Six of Crows but left it at work and started this in the meantime and FINISHED IT BECAUSE HOLY MOTHER OF GOD THIS WAS GREAT. I legitimately could not put it down. VE Schwab struck again! The complexity of the characters and the bouncing back and forth on the timeline and oh my goodness, if you're okay with reading about some college kids intentionally trying to kill themselves to get superpowers and maybe becoming accidental villains in the process PLEASE READ THIS (and if not that's totally okay too, it was just really good and thought provoking).
1862374743	This was some dark and dramatic fun. The short chapters, snappy writing, and jumps between timelines make this an exciting and engaging story. I flew by the middle portion as it got addicting to read. Schwab sets out to explore themes like the spectrum of villainy that we fall across, and I think she achieves it. I appreciate the role that the characters played, even though I wasn't rooting for all of them. The female characters and their B-plots add an interesting dynamic and help make the book feel more well-rounded.What keeps me from rating this book a solid 5 stars is that not all the characters' stories are explored in-depth, and their motivations aren't rock-solid enough to justify the drama. I understood the characters more by roles they played in the narrative structure, rather than saw them as real, fleshed-out people. I also think that we lost an opportunity to explore the main characters' sexualities and the depth it could have added to the story, instead being reduced to gay subtext. And lastly, there were times I felt like the writing was a little cheesy with how gritty and edgy it was trying to be, almost in a cartoonish anime style.That being said, superhero stories aren't expected to be deep and are often cartoonish anyway. The book is still very solid and a fun read, and I'll be picking up the sequel.
930278665	3.5/3.75*
2059723148	Reading about messed up lunatics had never felt better, full satisfaction guaranteed.A twisted tale of friendships, bitter jealousy, betrayal, loss and ultimately of revenge, Vicious is about Victor and Eli, former friends turned foes who also happen to be deviously cunning in (almost) equal measures. Neither one can be categorised as simply good or evil and unlike many stories of similar kinds, this is in no way a tale of good vs. evil as there are no good guys in this scenario. They’re both borderline psychopaths and narcissistic as shit. Tell me you're not in love already...As far as anti-heroes go, Victor is an absolute delight. Even when most of his actions leave you astounded and amazed, you can’t help but love and fear him all at once, whilst rooting for him to come out on top. He really messes with your sense of logic. It’s a ‘lesser of two evils’ kind of a thing.Eli is a whole other story. Though he is brilliant with frighteningly well-crafted plans, he’s incredibly ignorant, fanatic and his lack of empathy and self-righteousness make Victor seem like an angelic hero. He seriously takes the cake on the whole MESSED UP front. What more could you ask for in your characters than when they’re so delightfully grey and blur the lines between good and evil? Each of the supporting characters is also intricately narrated and as their compelling backstories are slowly revealed, we’re made to understand their actions and decisions. Seriously, everybody’s messed up and it couldn’t be more delightful. The entire concept and deliberation is just brilliant. Go, Schwab! ✊ Just go read it... simple as that.
6919133930	3.75 stars
2282402472	BRILLIANT. ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. I BLOODY LOVED THIS.“Humans, monsters, heroes, villains—to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labelled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.”I thought this would be a lot more X-Men-ish with tonnes of fight scenes and action sequences, but this was more of a psychological debate over good vs evil. Rather than supervillains, we were following the paths of sociopathic serial killers, which was fascinating, albeit unexpected. I began the novel preferring Eli, and ended it rooting for Victor. I still can’t say which is the hero and which is the villain, considering that neither of them have any qualms about killing other people. They’re both equally evil psychopaths. “Hate was too simple a word. He and Eli were bonded, by blood and death and science. They were alike, more so now than ever. And he had missed Eli. He wanted to see him. And he wanted to see him suffer. He wanted to see the look in Eli’s eyes when he lit them up with pain. He wanted his attention. Eli was like a thorn beneath Victor’s skin, and it hurt. He could turn off every nerve in his body, but Victor couldn’t do a damned thing about the twinge he felt when he thought of Cardale.”Victor Vale was definitely my favourite character. He was, by no means a good person, considering that he convinced his roommate, Eli, that conducting an experiment which requires them to scientifically die in order to be reborn as EO’s (Extra Ordinaries) was a good idea, and the fact that he got the aforementioned roommate’s girlfriend, Angie, killed as a result of the experiment. BUT, I still loved him??? I don’t know what that says about me, haha. “You don’t think I’m a bad person. I don’t want to prove you wrong.”While, Victor was pretty much the King of Bad Decisions, whether it be murder or torture, he was also caring when he wanted to be. Although he initially had ulterior motives when he invited Sydney and Mitch into the fold, he did come to genuinely be fond of them and the little group that they had formed. Dol was also an adorable addition to this newfound criminal family. “The paper called Eli a hero. The word made Victor laugh. Not just because it was absurd, but because it posed a question. If Eli really was a hero, and Victor meant to stop him, did that make him a villain?”Eliot Cardale, later known as Eli Ever, on the other hand, I wasn’t as fond of. I didn’t like his holier than thou attitude, thinking that he was chosen by God to essentially play God, by acting as judge, jury, and executioner, where he decided who was worthy to live or die. What makes him so special that he thinks it’s his duty to exterminate everyone with abilities? Having supernatural abilities shouldn’t be a crime, as what matters is what you DO with the abilities. The ability itself isn’t bad. If you have the power of hydrokinesis, the power could be used for good if you’re creating water for someone who’s thirsty, or the power could be used for evil if you’re creating water to fill someone’s lungs and kill them. It depends on HOW it’s used. Also, it’s so hypocritical of Eli, considering that he has abilities, as well. It’s such a Hitler-esque thing to do. Hitler only wanted Aryan Germans, despite not being Aryan himself. In addition, Eli refused to LISTEN to Victor, assuming the worst of his friend, which was the catalyst for everything to come in the novel. Everything that occurred could have been averted, if Eli had stopped to listen. Instead, he was responsible for betraying Victor, which set Victor on the path for revenge against Eli. This was such an engaging novel that I nearly devoured in one sitting (Why does uni exist? Honestly, why?!). I was glued to the edge of my seat, as I was SO INVESTED in these characters and SO DESPERATE to see how everything would unfold. I didn’t think that I’d like this as much as I ended up liking it. The Shades of Magic trilogy is still my favourite work of Schwab’s, but this is more of what I wanted from the Monsters of Verity duology. THIS was the dark and gritty story that I desired. It was so twisted, being centred on ambition for power, betrayal among friends, and hunger for revenge. And I LOVED IT. I can’t wait to see them all again in Vengeful!
3726430064	Okay. I really don’t know what to say about this book. My base opinion is that I loved it. I really, really loved it. The premise drew me in, the setting was gritty and harsh, the atmosphere was intriguing, and the characters lived up to the promise of a “morally-grey psychological thriller.” Bonus points for lack of romance, which is extremely rare in books.This book calls into question the differences between heroes and villains. It questions morality and the things that we think are right. The prose, the questions, and the characters pushed my two brain cells to function so much better than they do in biology class.“But these words people threw around—humans, monsters, heroes, villains—to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.”The plot was something that I was not expecting. I didn’t know what to expect from the book synopsis. What I got was that there was a friends-to-enemies vengeance theme, plus superpowers and some mystery. That was enough for me. And when I started reading, I was shook.Essentially, Vicious follows Victor Vale and Eli Ever (formerly Eliot Cardale) as they search for each other - hunt each other down, more like. It promises answers to questions that we’re handed straight from the introduction: what are EOs, and how did these two become them? What happened ten years ago to turn them against each other? Who is the hero and who is the villain? And finally...what happens when they finally meet?The pacing of this book jumped from “ten years ago” to following Victor and Eli in the present. It was a little bit confusing at first, since I’m not a fan of time jumps, but once I got used to it I could see how it made the story that much richer and added that much more suspense.“This isn’t divinity, Eli. It’s science and chance.”The characters were pretty much all morally-grey. I loved that. I loved how depending whose side of the story we were getting (which POV was being narrated), we could see who thought what about themselves and the others. Victor was the protagonist of his own narrative, but the villain of Eli’s. And I loved how we weren’t given a concrete good-or-bad situation because...well, how boring would this be if it were?Victor was technically a villain. We all know he’s what you would consider a “bad guy”. He caused pain, killed people, and did things for his own good - a natural Slytherin. But his side of the story also seemed more...justified. Like he could have been the hero.Victor was snarky, harsh and cold, and I loved him for it. He schemed and refused to sugarcoat things. I loved his straightforward, cold, blunt attitude.“Victor wondered about lots of things. He wondered about himself (whether he was broken, or special, or better, or worse) and about other people (whether they were all really as stupid as they seemed). He wondered about Angie - what would happen if he told her how he felt, what it would be like if she chose him. He wondered about life, and people, and science, and magic, and God, and whether he believed in any of them.”Eli, on the other hand, viewed himself as a hero. He had this cocky attitude and natural charm that he turned on to people he wanted something from. He did whatever he did while believing it was for the “greater good”. If I had to describe Eli, it would be as a Slytherin pretending to be a Gryffindor.He had this personality that was...slippery, like you didn’t know what he was planning unless he told you - and if he told you, that could still be a lie. That was Eli’s character.“Well, when you wonder something,” said Eli, “doesn’t that mean part of you wants to believe in it? I think we want to prove things, in life, more than we want to disprove them. We want to believe.”Sydney has been described as a sweet cinnamon roll, but in my opinion she really wasn’t. She was quiet, sure, and a bit dependent, but just because she was young and small doesn’t mean she was automatically a baby. She had this quiet strength and intelligence that didn’t really match with the little-girl image that everyone seems to match with her.Her ability and her personality just drew me in.“Who was she to judge or decide or grant or deny? Simply because she could, did that mean that she should?”Mitch was an amazing example of the ways we judge people and the things that people don’t know about us. Physically, he was this huge tattooed guy, which made everyone think he was some gang member or just overall a huge threat. In reality, Mitch was more of a cinnamon roll than Sydney was, and he was actually this really smart empathetic person.“He might be mentally cut out for a desk job, but he doubted he’d fit behind most desks. And everything was going smoothly—shitty apartment and shitty pay but all legally valid—until a man was beaten to death a few blocks from where his crew was unloading peaches. The cops took one look at Mitch and booked him. No bloody knuckles, and two coworkers to swear he had his arms full of fruit the whole time, and none of it mattered. Mitch went straight back to prison.”Oh, and speaking of how we look at characters - you cannot tell me I’m the only one who shipped Victor and Eli. Hello? I know I said there was no romance in this book, but the chemistry here is…more than friendly in my opinion.“On the surface, Eli seemed perfectly normal, but now and then Victor would catch a crack, a sideways glance, a moment when his roommate's face and his words, his look and his meaning, would not line up. Those fleeting slices fascinated Victor. It was like watching two people, one hiding in the other's skin. And their skin was always too dry, on the verge of cracking and showing the color of the thing beneath.”Is this a hateful retake of the “I see all of you, and I like it” trope?“You make cheating death sound so simple.”“We do seem awfully good at it,” said Victor cheerfully. He lifted his glass. “To never dying.”Eli lifted his. “To being remembered.”Their glasses clinked as Eli added, “Forever.”This is the enemies version of “always”, change my mind“Victor had never been good, or sweet—he’d always had a sharp edge; Eli had been drawn to the metallic glint of it.”undeniable allure“Hate was too simple a word. He and Eli were bonded, by blood and death and science. They were alike, more so now than ever. And he had missed Eli. He wanted to see him. And he wanted to see him suffer. He wanted to see the look in Eli‘s eyes when he lit them up with pain. He wanted his attention. Eli was like a thorn beneath Victor‘s skin, and it hurt. He could turn off every nerve in his body, but Victor couldn‘t do a damned thing about the twinge he felt when he thought of Cardale.”I am all for platonic relationships, and God fucking knows we could use a few more, but I personally think this goes a bit too far beyond platonic.Evale stan for lifeTo sum up my feelings about these two and their dynamic:The atmosphere of this book was gritty, nostalgic, and rough - like bittersweet memories plus crime. It went into morals, media distortion, and government cover-ups. It went into power and what people can do with it.“There were some people you had to stay away from, people who poisoned everything in reach. Then there were people you wanted to stick with, the ones with silver tongues and golden touches. And then, there were people you stood beside, because it meant you weren’t in their way.”The moral questions that VE Schwab posed made my head hurt and made me question my entire view of the world, which was confusing as fuck because I’m already questioning my sexuality and I don’t have much room up there for anything else.“If Eli really was a hero, and Victor meant to stop him, did that make him a villain?He took a long sip of his drink, tipped his head back against the couch, and decided he could live with that.”Each character’s personal perspective and the way they viewed things, from conscience to religion to science, was so unique and so deep in such an interesting way.“The steps to solving a problem, from elementary math to breaking out of a police station, remained the same.”“Vicious” is a book about how two mens’ lives changed, ended, and restarted. It’s about power and ambition. It’s about ethics and beliefs, religion vs. science, and what you do with what you’ve been given. It’s deep and rough, but beautiful and thrilling in a weirdly psychological way.“The moments that define lives aren’t always obvious. They don’t always scream LEDGE, and nine times out of ten there’s no rope to duck under, no line to cross, no blood pact, no official letter on fancy paper. They aren’t always protracted, heavy with meaning.”Why did I give this four stars instead of five, when this is obviously a rave review? I don’t fucking know. And I don’t have a good reason. Maybe because I haven’t read this book in over a year and I rated it this before? I’ll reread this when I can and then I’ll come back to see whether or not I should change that I guess.“When no one understands, that's usually a good sign that you're wrong.”also am I the only one who thought the cover was a dress for like a year because that fucking looks like a dress
3927147380	This book is, in fact, as great as everyone says. And yes, V.E. Schwab is the real deal. This should be the moment in which I bubble about how addicting the book is, how terrific the story is, and how much I need thousands of books written by Veronica… but I have the feeling you already know all of this.I've been hearing only good things about this book since I joined Goodreads, and now that I finally read it I understand the hype. Even more than that, actually: I was afraid I set my expectations too high but nope, it does deserve everything in this world.Is there anything better than a bunch of morally grey characters - as in sociopaths - with weird supernatural powers, and the only goal of killing one another?Also, I love when everyone in the story is the bad guy, but there's always that one guy who is more justified to act crazy than the others. He's the one the readers root for and the one who can do the weirdest, evil shits without being judged. Victor, my beloved, we love you and support your rights and wrongs. Eli, go fuck yourself, you hypocrite. There's nothing I hate more than a person with a God complex who hurts animals. But nothing of this could be possible without Veronica’s amazing writing skills, which transport you back and forth between the past and the present without any esitation. The story of how all of this began, the time they spent apart, the revenge plot, the background characters… just perfect. ↠ 5 stars
3769414303	The inherent romantic tension between two characters who are utterly obsessed with killing each other.
2953210431	“Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” I'm sorry, the old Ale can't come to the phone right now. Why? Oh, 'cause she's dead. •*´¨`*•.¸¸.•*´¨`*•.¸•*´¨`*•.¸¸.•*´¨`*•.my blog review; my pinterest board; my spotify playlist•*´¨`*•.¸¸.•*´¨`*•.¸•*´¨`*•.¸¸.•*´¨`*•.holy shit, holy shit, holy fuck.I still can't gather my thoughts and write a proper review, but I'll try anyways. My complete review is on my blog, up there.This book is so gay . I don't say it, science does.Victoria Schwab did it again. Addie LaRue and Vicious are fighting in the background of my mind to see which of them is my favorite book. I can picture Luc and Victor fighting.Everything in this book screams perfection. Vicious is addictive and that's one of the reasons why Schwab is one of my favorite writers: because her writing is addictive and perfect and wonderful and so fucking beautiful.Vicious is a book about power, superpowers, morally grey and complex characters and ruined friendships and relationships. I couldn't put down this book, since page 1 I was captivated.Victor Vale and Eli Cardale have been roomates (and they were rooooomates, iykyk) who're on their senior year and what starts with a thesis ends up in a shared research and death. Ominous, right?Both of them are arrogant, have their own beliefs and motivations, and we can see them throughout the book.Victor is willing to do to stop Eli and make him suffer for the 10 years that Victor spent in prison. While Eli is busy hunting down more EO, believing that they're broken.This book is amazing, and took me out my reading slump. The characters were amazing, the pacing was fast, the writing is so beautiful and overall I'm in love.I need the second book asap. I was crying until I read the last sentence of the book.This is how you write a book. This is the kind of sci-fi story that I want to publish! previous review: buddy read with bhavya <3"superheroes" and morally grey characters? it's just the exact thing i write and i'm here for it! also, i love schwab's writing, so i must read this asap
5712879983	݁ ·˚🖇️ ⊹ ⌇ pre–read.⤿ started on july 7, 2024.me reading fantasy??? well... that’s a rare thing 🫣 i usually avoid the genre like the plague, but i saw a video about this book that got me super intrigued so here i am. <3 not going to lie—i’m kind of hesitant since i’m not a fantasy girlie, but i’m also curious to see what the hype is all about. i really hope this one is worth the read! 🤞🏼👀buddy read with my bestie heather. 💌
4304421786	4.5 this was kinda gay
1787011922	I can see how anyone (especially a youngertype millennial Anyone) who hasn't seen the early 90s Roberts-Sutherland-Baldwin thriller "Flatliners"* COULD be moved by this (you know, young 'uns playing with Death & stuff), a work of serious unoriginality. Another "X-Men"? No-oh thanks. (Unless, of course, you are under 30 & haven't yet gotten your fill of "Extra O rdinary" people [hint: as much as you want to deny this, every person on earth is an EveryPerson... No one's born "special," y'all!!!! (These superpowers are so very repetitive!].)* New version's in theaters now. Obvi.
3898684123	Contrarian review time. I can't believe this was written by the same person who wrote The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue.Addie LaRue is a beautifully written, emotional masterpiece. Vicious is quite the opposite.Vicious is a friends-to-enemies story of two college roommates, Victor and Eli, who discover that they can get superpowers through near-death experiences. In others words, if they commit not-quite-suicide, they can become superheroes.Ugh.However, instead of teaming up to do something worthwhile, Victor and Eli become bitter rivals. Why? Apparently to set up the main revenge theme of the story without any convincing justification on the basis of real human emotions or logic. Ten years later, Eli wants to kill every other person who has obtained superpowers.That's right, V.E. Schwab has created a ripoff of X-Men.It's not any better than that. The characters are all flat and unlikeable. Their motivations are nonsensical, one-dimensional, and monomaniacal. The writing itself is a clunky mess. This whole book was an uninspired and poorly executed train wreck. V.E. Schwab is capable of greatness, but this isn't it.
2650705447	2019: 5/52024: no oczywiście, że 5/5
2105955125	#1 Vicious ★★★★★#2 Vengeful ???Vicious isn’t the easiest book to review, because it isn’t the easiest book to describe. Before reading it, I’d asked a few friends what they thought of it, and everyone said the same thing: You have to experience it for yourself. They were absolutely right, but that’s obviously not going to stop me from taking a moment to ramble about yet another incredible Schwab title. “There are no good men in this game.” First, let me say that not only is the writing wonderfully on par for Schwab’s typical excellence in storytelling, but the entire plot she has created here in so captivating. The idea of this reality so much like our own, with one difference that seems so small, yet impacts so much—that an individual who has been brought back from death would suddenly gain superpowers—sucked me in from the start. All Eli had to do was smile. All Victor had to do was lie. Both proved frighteningly effective. The storyline itself is complemented by a magnificent, unique way of telling the story: the chapters of the book are nonlinear, jumping back and forth through time to put the whole picture together. It’s a writing style that I don’t think most authors could pull off, but I was not surprised in the slightest to quickly realize that not only could Schwab pull it off, she wielded it with such seamless grace that I was left more than a little stunned. I feel like I say this all the time, but there are authors and then there are these genius artists, and she is absolutely of the latter group. I can never seem to get enough of her writing voice. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human. All the rest aside, though, what might be my favorite aspect of Schwab’s stories is how lovable her characters can be, even when they’re doing awful things. Despite his grey morality (or perhaps because of it?), I felt like I loved Victor Vale from the moment we met him, and only grew to cherish him more as the book progressed. At his side, Mitch and Sydney (and Dol, of course) both won me over just as effortlessly, and within a few chapters, I found myself thinking that I’m going to be absolutely devastated whenever the time comes to say goodbye to this strange little crew. “What gives you the right to play judge and jury and executioner?” If you’ve had any reservations at all about picking up this series, I cannot encourage you enough—please, rush out and get yourself a copy of this book straight away, and take the advice that I was given, and would now pass on to you: no matter how much I could rave about this story, you have to experience it for yourself.You can find this review and more on my blog, or you can follow me on twitter, bookstagram, or facebook!---Buddy read with my sweet love and partner in Schwab-land, Terry!
2315206661	“But these words people threw around - humans, monsters, heroes, villains - to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️There’s always the story involving a hero and a villain. Someone who’s good and someone who’s bad. But who decides on which side you are? Who tells you that you’re the good guy or the evil one? Well, sometimes it’s your mind telling you that the things you do are right. More or less. That’s why Eli Ever is killing EOs - extraordinary people with powers - one by one. And Victor - his former best friend and prisoner for at least ten years - is hunting him down for locking him up. This book is definitely one of a kind. It’s really slow - like nearly all of Victoria Schwabs books - but the story/characters/world/writing is phenomenal (like always). There isn’t much happening through the beginning, but we get to know how Eli and Victor met, what happened and we get to see what Victors evil plan is. I really really liked this book. It was definitely entertaining, even though it had a really slow pacing. I especially liked that the ending and the beginning ended nearly the same. All in all it’s a real masterpiece and I can’t wait for the second book! Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Victor Vale is now officially one of my favorite villains/characters. We don’t get to know much about his past (at least what happened before he went to college), but we get to know that he’s extremely intelligent and interesting. My favorite parts were the ones where Victor acted like a real life dad. Caring for his kids (Mitch, Dol and Sydney) and always looking out for them, even though he sometimes does it too strictly. Then there is Eli. I was really fascinated by him. The way he explains and justifies his murders/actions is kind of fanatic. The way he thinks god is approving everything he does, makes him such an interesting character. He’s always in doubt and tries to finish his “duty”, but is always torn between his own believes and the things he sees and feels. The “side” characters in this story - Sydney, Mitch and Serena are also brilliantly created. They’re kind of twisted and all of them have their own personality and background story. All in all Victoria Schwab did a great job creating the characters. They catch your interest immediately and they do feel very real. World ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Superheroes, villains and sidekicks. There are many worlds involving them. DC, Marvel, we all heard of them, maybe even watched the movies or read the comics. But in some way they never felt like the real world. But with Victoria’s story “Vicious” it does. It feels like it could happen anytime. Soon there will be other people - extraordinary people that don’t fit into the „normal“ world. People that survived a near death experience, but survived. They’re all survivors. But surviving something means that you sometimes loose something in the process. You gain and you loose. But you never remain the same. Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Oh man oh man. Victoria Schwab was never the author for a fluffy, erotic or passionate love story. In her stories she focuses more on friendships, families. People you choose to live with. And in this book we focus on Eli’s and Victors past friendship and the new „family“ Victor found himself. I loved them all and if I was a character living in this book I would definitely be in Team Victor. Writing style ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Victoria is a mastermind in writing, no doubt in that. But the way she slows her pacing is sometimes a little bit dragging. It was a brilliant book that jumps through the time - from past to present - and has different POVs, that make the story so much more intriguing and interesting.First reread ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I still love this book so much. Absolute favorite ♥️
3997582448	are they trying to kill each other or are they in love? i can’t tell 😻
2443433493	OH GURL. The hype surrounding this book is legitimate. I repeat. THE HYPE. IS. LEGIT.So often I find myself reading hyped up books and then wondering why the hell I listen to it because all hype does is build up my expectations and set me up for failure.Well....NOT THIS TIME, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.I don’t love reading reviews that involve a lot of plot summary and quotes, so I’m going to go ahead and skip all of that and tell you the elements I loved. Also because I love lists.1. Unlikable, flawed characters GALORE.They’re everywhere. It’s amazing. I put on my Cersei Lannister crown and knighted each of these characters for their selfish actions and psychopathic tendencies. SO MANY DEXTER MORGAN DARK PASSENGERS.2. It’s in 3rd person omniscient, but I didn’t find myself sighing when POVs switched.I’m aware I’m a giant dork, but if I’m going to be following multiple characters, I need all of it to be in 3rd omniscient. Otherwise, characters start sounding too much alike and I can’t ever remember whose POV I’m currently reading. However, this can be a double edged sword, because I will quickly start to favor certain POVs over others and grow annoyed when a chapter follows one of the non-favorites (@ Bran Stark). Schwab knows what she’s doing when it comes to this. You’re going to follow multiple unsavory people. However, each character has uniquely distinct ways of thinking/viewing the world, so I was honestly excited every single time the POV switched because it meant that I got to see what this other character was thinking during that scene/moment/day/reveal/whatever. I loved ALL of them (a rarity for me).3. The gray area is EVERYWHEREGray areas are the absolute best part of anti-hero books. Don’t @ me. Am I aware the main characters are ethically doing terrible things? Yep. Am I also aware that morally, I get why they’re doing it? Yep. Am I fine with rooting for them even if I know that logically I shouldn’t? There’s a LOT of death in this. A lot of crime. A lot of manipulation. When you step back and look at the big picture, you’re going to see that there aren’t really any heroes in this book, but there also aren’t any villains either. It’s filled with Severus Snapes, And Then There Were None crimes, and dark passengers. From now on, Victor Vale and Eli Ever are invited to all of my favorite character dinner parties.
1717020888	4/5 “But these words people threw around - humans, monsters, heroes, villains - to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” Okay so I have always wanted to read vicious, I swear I've had it on my tbr since I was born. Why? Well because that blurb sounded oh so delicious, I love anti heros ! As soon as I received Vicious I was so excited to devour it, just like I would a cheesecake. Upon the first page of the novel, I stumbled across this quote; "Life—the way it really is—is a battle not between Bad and Good, but between Bad and Worse.—Joseph Brodsky” THIS IS MY NEW FAVOURITE QUOTE. Its the most truthful thing I've ever read in my life. It was love at page one, and my love for this novel only seemed to increase, until that ending. I WANTED MORE BADASSERY! I went through the whole book enjoying it but that ending was so flat. I feel like the ending could have been way better. But that's really my only complaint and that's just my opinion. "The absence of pain led to an absence of fear, and the absence of fear led to a disregard for consequences.” Okay so enough bad stuff. I don't think I can flail and yell enough about this book, I wish I could write this whole review in caps to get my point across however that's hard work on an iPhone and I'm extremely lazy. This book was the bomb, I'm so inlove with it. Everything is just so amazing, I loved the plot so much, it was exciting, fun & full of WOW moments, theres only one word to describe it and that's COOL. It's basically about two best friends who start experimenting with near death experiences. Some stuff happens then bam Victor is in jail and escapes with one thing on his mind to kill ELI (his old bestfriend). The book is multiple POV but with Victor as the main and most common POV. The storyline is dark and it is set in a really strange way, it's in past tense ten years ago, current day & days after Victors escape, so it's kinda jumpy however she nailed it and it totally worked, so I'm going to applaud Schwab for pulling it off. The characters were so goddamn amazing, we have our protagonist Victor Vale who I adored with every inch of my black heart. Seriously he had my heart captured as soon as he escaped jail *swoons*, I LOVE BADASS MC's. And he was so bad, like villainous and malicious bad. So PRECIOUS & quite evil. I totally get why people find him hard to like, I however was made for Victor Vale. My favourite Victor Vale quote; “Because you don't think I'm a bad person," he said. "And I don't want to prove you wrong.” I also love Sydney and Mitch, both were incredibly entertaining background characters. Our antagonist is a sadistic bastard who is like a crazed religious person (I mean NO offence to any religion or extremely religious people or any crazy people in fact! Don't take my words as an attack. The antagonist is actually a psycho, and if you read the book, you'll understand what I mean). I always know books are gonna end up hectic when our antagonist is doing things for the 'greater good'. There was lots of death and good shit. And quite possibly the best anti superhero book I've ever read. It's the only one I've read, so it's not up against anything however it was the greatest & you should just read the goddamn book. Also if you haven't yet noticed, it was extremely quotable.I love Schwabs writing style, its very simple and I like simple. She is a fantastic writer and I'm definitely looking forward to some more adult stuff from her and I'll be dying until book two is released. Like bury me now and revive me once it arrives, I can't take the waiting already.Ps I heard this is gonna be a movie ?! *extreme arm and leg flailling* I wouldn't recommend this book to the YA community due to the amount of drug use in it. So definitely recommended to all mature beings (15+). You can find this review & some others on my Wordpress
3283609303	“But these words people threw around - humans, monsters, heroes, villains - to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” “Did you know that when you take away a person's fear of pain, you take away their fear of death? You make them, in their own eyes, immortal. Which of course they're not, but what's the saying? We are all immortal until proven otherwise?” What can i say? i just love not knowing whos side i need and want too take because of moralgreyness. This book dives intoo the villian perspective and the fact that its all about perspective who the villian in a story is , the question who is more of a villian? Someone whokills people and knows its wrong and does it anyway or someone who is convinced he is doing the right thing and does it because gods wants him too but does the exact same thing?🔪🔪🔪🔪🔪I reccomend this too everyone who wants a morally grey story and wants too read from villians their point of vieuw and wants a twisted story Where is vicious about Vicious is the first demonic morally grey book about anti heroes by the beautiful writer ve. Schwab. This book is 100 % morally grey , what even is white is what this book says , i only know grey. It captures the evil side of humanity in a very amazing twisted way trough the eyes of these charracters. We follow Victor Vale a sociopath who can mimic human emotions but doesnt actually feel a lot of them and his room mate Eli Ever a person who on the outside seems the opposite of Victor , happy , outgoing and a popular easy person who also has another side too him , because is anyone all good? They are roommates and get friends because victor seems too see another thing hidden between Eli his smiles , something dark which attracts him. One day Eli wants too write a project about EO , aka extraOrdinary these are people who had a death experience and come back too life with extraOrdinary abilities , things normal humans cant do you would say on the first eye , super powers that super heroes also have but is this true? Or goes something missing when you come back too life , a part which creates fear ? Victor and Eli decide too test the theorie of the EOs they researched on themselves but this goes very wrong. Victor ends up in prison after a betrayel of Eli and 10 years later he escaped allong with his cellmate Mitchell Turner who is the i look bad on the outside but i am a cinnamon roll on the inside or am i not ? kinda charracter looking for revenge on Eli , the person who ruined Victor his life. In the mean time Eli has been destroying other extraOrdinary people like him in the name of ´ god ´ because these people are bad and he needs too fix the world , good , bad ?? who knows. This whole books is just so morally grey , it explores the term heroes in a different way and it explores the cruel an morally grey side of humanity with this plot and these morally grey villian charracters. it really dives intoo the good vs evil theme , it also explores the vieuw of people and how both vieuws can see themselves as the good side and the other side as the evil side. Ve schwab created an amazing captivating story with a discussion about this theme in it that i loved because i am a sucker for morally grey both charracter are not good and you want too figure out who too root for troughout the story. it facinating looking on the inside of the minds of pschopaths. The book also explores the theme of how far people want to go to become something more in the world. and overall this book really shows that it's all a matter of perspective both the povs see themselves as the ´ good one and the hero and the right one ´ and the other person as the wrong one. Its just very intresting too think further about. I love the dynamic it gives the two main charracters together in this book. ¨ the paper called Eli a hero. the word made Victor laugh. Not because it was absurd , but because it posed a question. If Eli really was a hero , and Victor tried too stop him , did that make him a villian? ¨ i also love the whole science thinking behind the thing that creates an EO , death. That they are like the person they where before death but changed and like a shadow of them and their power is something related from the last thoughts these people thought about when they died. Charracter talk Eli ever explores the people in this world that do evil things because they believe they are doing something good and do the things for the greater good , somany evil people in the actual world are like this and believe in doing bad things for the greater good and see themselves as human so i found it highly intresting but also disgusting too read about Eli his charracter , Victor Vale On the other hand is pure evil you see him being s psychopath from the begining of the book , he wants too have revenge on Eli and aknowledges this yet also questions troughout the book things about villians and what makes someone a villian. Both these charracters are disgusted and villians yet you also feel a connection too them kinda and want too know what is happening too them and looking too pick a side. I also enjoyed the side charracters. We have Sydney Clarke a 12 year old EO Victor and Mitch find on the street and later discover has something too do with Eli , they create this little group which i loved , it kinda has found family vibes which we ofc stan. oh and she can raise the death and has a death brought back too life doggo 2x. We also have her older sister Serena Clarke who is a sire and can manipulate everyone arround her and is on Eli his side. writing the writing is also beautiful like in every ve schwab book , she is just the queen of creating stories and make the stories come alive and using words and making quotes and making you think Overall i really enjoy the moral grey themes behind this book about humanity and about these charracters and who is wrong and who is right or if they are both right and wrong in their own way. I loved exploring this and i loved the flashbacks and the present time switching and getting too know the backstory and current story of the charracters , it all fitted together. The ending did kinda felt me left like i wanted more , it felt quite anti climax like it was over i 0.1 second even tho the build up too the moment was so long. I felt like i wanted more spectacle of it. I reccomend this too everyone who loves moral grey and wants too read about villians and the cruel parts of humanity or wants too be in a demonic mood. Lia , Minty this would be a good read for you demonic creatures hehehehehe
1786768247	Before I get to my spoiler-free review, it needed to be said that this is my first V.E Schwab book and I have absolutely little expectation from this book. Why? It's because this is one of the book that I purchased when I was drunk and thought "ooh, that book cover looked kinda cool" and I bought it without knowing anything about it. I mean, just look at the cover, it's like a bloody twisted version of Sam & Dean from Supernatural TV series. Luckily, the book turns out to be really good, it could've even get a full 5 star from me if weren't for the disappointing climax. Now on to the review!This quote and picture of the main characters (Victor on the left, Eli on the right) basically summed up the main plot and theme of the book. There is no clear Good & Evil in this book, everything here is done in morally grey area. It's a clash of anti-heroes with their own sense of justice which in our own eyes could be seen as evil or villainy. V.E Schwab did a fantastic job with the theme and it became my favorite part of the book because imo, this theme could be applied to almost every conflict in our current society. Take for an instance, differences in faith (PLEASE DO NOT GET TRIGGERED OR OFFENDED, THIS IS JUST AN EXAMPLE AND MY OPINION, YOU CAN DISAGREE WITH ME IT'S COMPLETELY OKAY). I truly believe every single religion in this world were created to make ourselves become a better person and unite us in our differences, it wasn't really supposed to divide us. Now, in our world, religion became tool of politics and terrorism, it's also used as a base for relationship and where I live, this is how it usually goes when you're going to pursue a new relationship with someone. "Oh I really like that guy/girl, what's his/her religion?" if it's different then that's it, doesn't matter if they love each other or perfectly suitable, 95% of them will just give up. See how that divide us? I'll not dwell on this topic anymore though, there's million different opinion on this and I don't want to start a fight. This is just an example from my point of view to show how great the theme discussed in the book is and how simple differences of belief or where you stand could create conflicts of huge proportion like what happened in the book.The book's tale of revenge came from Victor's sense of justice, curiosity and quest for power faced with Eli's faith in God and his self-righteousness. It is the plot and main driving factor of the story. The book itself are written with the structure of going back and forth between the past and present within each chapter. V.E Schwab used this structure to explain the origins of the main characters, how they got their power, what determines the power they get, how they turned from best friend to archenemies and clearly show their feelings and opinion on becoming ExtraOrdinary (name of the human with abilities with in the book). Well crafted and written really well, the book became so addictive and it gets really hard to put the book down. This is probably how I look like when I'm reading this book.Vicious is not without its flaw though, after building the story from the beginning to the climax, I find the climax to be really disappointing. It just sort of ended within 10 pages. No epic fight, no great action sequences, just like "poof" and it's done. The ending is really predictable, after finding out the power of one of the side characters, I already knew how it would end and I was proven right. Doesn't mean the ending is bad though, it's still good. Just because the ending is predictable doesn't mean it will be bad, you won't say all Disney's ending which ends with "happily ever after" bad right? However, in this case, I just want to be surprised as the tension build-up towards the climax were really well written. I also find the characters could be explored a bit more as the book itself is really short. It's 340 pages full of chapter break with huge margins, there's literally not a single chapter which last 20 pages.Overall, Vicious earns a 4 star from me. It contained great plot, theme and great characters, including the side characters but too bad it fall short on its climax and ending. I'll definitely get the sequel "Vengeful" once it's released after reading this as I find there's so much more potential left this world have to offer. I definitely recommend this to anyone who's into anti-hero and superhero stories. Side note: My review is not intended to offend anyone, it's just my opinion. This book kinda reminds me a bit of the movie "Chronicle" (awesome superhero movie btw, watch it if you haven't) as it shows how we, as an ordinary person could really change completely when we receive an extraordinary power.
3258794643	AHH THIS WAS SO GOOD!!!Victor Vale is the brightest student at his prestigious university. Eli Cardale is his best friend and roommate. The two are first and second in their class, although who is first and who is second depends on when you ask. When Eli decides to complete his thesis on EO's, or people with ExtraOrdinary powers, everyone thinks he's crazy for picking such a topic, and is surprised when the professor allows it. But, when Eli begins making progress with his research, Victor can't let Eli get ahead. The next step, Victor tells Eli, is making an EO. When the boys are successful, things change. Victor and Eli aren't the boys they once were, and now, they're pitted against each other. "Victor Vale was not a ****ing sidekick." Somehow, I’ve managed to go my entire life without reading anything by Victoria Schwab. I can’t believe I’ve been missing out for so many years. I read this book because I was looking for novels with ace/aro protagonists. While this wasn't really mentioned in the book, Schwab has confirmed on Twitter that Victor is ace and I believe it is mentioned in its sequel, Vengeful. Vicious is a weird mix of supervillains, blackout poetry, elitist academia, and ex-cons. It works beautifully.I loved the friendship between Victor and Eli in the flashbacks. It was then that Victor seemed the most human. I felt a lot of connection with Victor between his desire to succeed and his selfishness. Sydney was my favorite character, though. She's the kid who gets taken in by Victor when he sees her walking on the side of the road with a bullet wound. She's only twelve, and she has a lot of growing up to do. I loved seeing her character development. I also liked Mitch, Victor's cellmate. With Mitch, Schwab essentially took the gentle giant trope and flipped it on its head. It was perfect. The only character I wasn't happy with was Angie, and that's just because I wish we would have gotten to know more about her. "When no one understands, that's usually a good sign that you're wrong." The writing style wasn't over the top, so it wasn't particularly noticeable. However, it wasn't bland, either. That is to say, it was perfect. It reminded me a little of Maggie Stiefvater's writing in The Raven Cycle, if Maggie wrote for adults. The plot was good, although the style of storytelling was atypical. I didn't mind. It was done well. The first half of the story is told mostly through flashbacks to Victor and Eli's college years, while the second half focuses on the clash between the two during the present. "There are no good men in this game." I've been thinking about this book a lot since I finished it. I feel like I haven't quite done it justice, but it's almost indescribable. I loved every single thing about this book, and based on the other reviews it looks like everyone else did, too. You can't go wrong with this one.
5468823109	4.5/5TO BYŁO SUPER
3445652532	✅✅✅ Morally grey characters (OMG I love Victor)✅ Lovable secondary characters ✅ Pace✅ Plot ✅ Tension✅ Writing✅ Scheming and lies✅ Found family (kind of…) Ok, this is not what I was expecting, but I loved it! But these words people threw around - humans, monsters, heroes, villains - to Victor it was all just a matter of semantics. Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human. This book jumps between events that happened 10 years ago and the present. I am not a fan of flashbacks usually, and it tends to annoy me when there is too many in a book, but the way the author used the flashbacks to slowly create this tension between Victor and Eli and to create this big build-up that led to the inevitable confrontation between them was awesome.Eli and Victor were friends when they attended university together. Both brilliant and very competitive, they pushed each other to always surpass themself to try to be better than the other. Eli was obsessed with EOs, ExtraOrdinary people with extraordinary abilities, and Victor was obsessed with being better than Eli. Something obviously went wrong because 10 years later, Victor is now out of prison and on the hunt to find Eli, destroy him, and finally get his revenge. “All Eli had to do was smile. All Victor had to do was lie. Both proved frighteningly effective.” There is an obvious rivalry between the two men from the start, and I was expecting the story to have one “good guy” and one “bad guy”, like most of the stories. From the start, I was expecting Eli to become the hero and Victor to become the villain, but they’re really both insane and bad guys in their own ways. Victor is cold, ruthless, and has some (many?) sociopath traits, while Eli is a delusional killer thinking he is doing society a favor. They are manipulative and selfish, they don’t have any problem with killing people to attain their goals, and truly, we’re following two killers who are on a mission to kill each other. “What gives you the right to play judge and jury and executioner?” Eliot Cardale, is the archenemy of Victor. I was not a huge fan of his character, with his belief that he was better than all the others, that he was a hero on a Holy mission, but at the same time, I loved hating him for what he did to Victor and for his belief that he had the right to decide who got to live or die. He's the kind of character that we love to hate (although hate might be a big word... but let's just say that I REALLY did not like him). “If Eli really was a hero, and Victor meant to stop him, did that make him a villain?He took a long sip of his drink, tipped his head back against the couch, and decided he could live with that.” I love Victor Vale. Honestly, I loved him from the start, even when I thought he would become the villain of the story, and I loved him more with each chapter. Does it weirds me out that I love a character that seems to have no real feelings (he’s always talking about replicating others’ feelings or mimicking them), who killed, tortured, and used many people?... Maybe? But I don’t care, I still love Victor. He is the perfect example of a morally grey character. He is a bad guy and he knows it, but on the other hand, he is willing to help some people (usually if there is potential for him to use them later) and he is trying to stop a serial killer (even though his motivation to do so is purely selfish).Sure he always had an ulterior motive when he showed kindness or a somewhat softer side of him, but it does not change the fact that in the end, he did care for Sydney and Mitch in his own way. “The moments that define lives aren't always obvious. They don't scream LEDGE, and nine times out of ten there's no rope to duck under, no line to cross, no blood pact, no official letter on fancy paper. They aren't always protracted, heavy with meaning. Between one sip and the next, Victor made the biggest mistake of his life, and it was made of nothing more than one line. Three small words."I'll go first.” There is so much hate between Eli and Victor, and they are so thirsty for violence and revenge, but I loved the darker ambiance it gave to the book. I could see that we were slowly approaching the big confrontation between them, and I couldn’t wait for it to happen, but at the same time I enjoyed the tension and uncertainty of what would happen so much, I didn't want it to end! “I don’t want to see Serena,” said Sydney.“I know,” said Victor. “But I want to see Eli.”“Why?” she asked. “You can’t kill him.”“That may be.” His fingers curled around the shovel. “But half the fun is trying.” Sydney is a 12 (but almost 13) years old girl who is also an EO, as is her older sister, Serena. When Sydney is shot and managed to barely escape, she ends up crossing paths with Victor and his partner Mitch, and on a rare show of empathy and kindness, Victor decided to take her in and help her. Obviously, he also wanted to use her as soon as he discovered she was an EO, but I still believe that he wanted to save her at first because there is still some good and basic human decency in him that couldn’t let him leave a 12 yo alone on the side of the road. “I have a hacker, a half-dead dog, and a child. It’s hardly an arsenal.” The dynamic between Victor, Mitch, and Sydney was cute. It was like a little light among all the anger, hatred, and bloodthirst that inhabited Victor. I would not call them a “found family” for now, because clearly, Victor is not there just yet, but I can totally see it happening in the next book. Mitch was also obviously protective of Sydney, and I love how he is kind and sweet, even though he appears to be a violent huge brute. "No, Sydney," he said. "I need you to stay here.""Why?" she asked. "Because you don't think I'm a bad person," he said. "And I don't want to prove you wrong." Near the middle and the end of the book, we could see that there was the beginning of a connection between Victor, Mitch, and Sydney, something that was more than just Victor wanting to use Mitch and Sydney for his evil plans. I also find it kind of cute how he wanted to protect her in his own way, and how he was trying to use her, while also trying to keep her safe and away from his bad side. Serena hadn't told Sydney to go home. She hadn't told her to run away. She told her to go somewhere safe. And over the course of the last week, safe had ceased to be a place for Sydney, and had become a person.Specifically, safe had become Victor. Sydney brings out the best in Victor I think, and it melts my heart to see how she grew attached to him, especially knowing that Victor doesn’t have anyone who cares about him besides Mitch. Sydney brought a cute touch to the story with her child’s heart, but even though she is still a child, she is clever and mature and knows exactly what is happening around her. She also has a ruthless side when it comes to the people who wronged her and tried to kill her, which means that Victor will probably like her even more! There were some people you had to stay away from, people who poisoned everything in reach. Then there were people you wanted to stick with, the ones with silver tongues and golden touched. And then, there were people you stood beside, because it meant you weren't in their way. And whoever Victor Vale was, whatever he was, and whatever he was up to, the only thing Mitch knew was that he did not want to be in his way. This was really an engaging novel that I read in two days, only because I had to stop to go to work or sleep. I would have read it in one sitting if they would have been no consequences. It’s dark, twisted, and morally gray. It’s full of lies, betrayals, revenge, and also kindness among it all, thanks to Sydney.First two fanarts by Oblivionsdream and Behnsi Follow me on Instagram 🙂
1503567590	Full Video Book DiscussionThis book was incredible! One of my new favorites of the year!I was interested from the beginning and I was pleased that Victoria Schwab's writing style was just as good as I remembered! I loved the way this was written with all of the flashbacks and I think that really added a lot to the story. So good. Highly recommend!
2370593076	As always my review WILL CONTAIN SPOILERS so if that bothers you stop reading If you are continuing I assume you've read it already or spoilers do not bother you.I am starting here to give you enough lines to contemplate if spoilers bother you. Anyway, yeah, I loved this book. It's the first book since January I've read and instantly knew it had to be five stars. No debate or hovering over the starts, certainly no wishing there was a half star button; this was five stars through and through.Let's start with the style. It wasn't that long of a book. The edition I read was like 360 something pages, which is a fair amount but certainly not long. Yet, despite being the kind of book you can toss in your backpack on a long train ride, it was so full of backstory. Sometimes I hate jumping around of perspectives, and it could've been messy with all the flashbacks, but the fact that they were so clear about when and where the flashbacks took place made sure nothing fell out of place and really built up the depth of characters. By the end of the book, I knew Eli's, Victor's, Serena's, Sydney's, and Mitch's backstory and motivation to be there. I liked how the first half of the book it jumped to flashbacks every other chapter, but once it reached the first deadly fight between Eli and Victor, where Victor ends up incarcerated for 10 years, the book is mostly linear. The powers themselves were cool (yeah, I wanted to sound smarter and pick a different word but cool is the best way to describe it). I mean, who would've thought the EO who could heal himself at rapid speed would be the most powerful of them all? It really created an interesting dynamic because almost all the other EOs had powers they could use as a weapon and Eli's reflexive gift could only protect him, but it was to such an extent that he was basically immortal.The villains were solid (I mean it is the villains series right so what do you expect?). Eli truly believed he was the hero, and that final scene hovering over Victor's bloody body and shouting he's saved them all and he's the hero while the police only saw him as a murderer, was such a brilliant visual. Serena was all-powerful and again created the sort of dynamic most people really need when reading a story like this (villains that are more powerful than the protagonists). I also really appreciated the perspective of the reader vs the outside world. In the beginning if anyone would've guessed who would grow up to be a super villain most of the students and Lockland would've probably picked Victor over the incredibly charming Eli, but as readers we got to know better.Finally, I am so happy with the final fight scene, but it made me so nervous when I was reading it. Poor Mitch! We were led to believe he was dead twice! That was so rude. I remember reading his death the second time and before he could pull the trigger I was thinking "I swear to god if he dies I'm DNF'ing this book, I don't care if there are only twenty pages left, it's done. Wow, that was an amazing climax. Especially since, I truly didn't know who was going to win, since a second book is coming out it could've been anyone.
6092515060	I would have read this in a single sitting if I had the time! Extremely addictive, exciting read with some fantastic plotting and characters. The pace never relents, and it left me telling myself “just one more chapter” every time. Schwab’s prose is excellent as well. Loved it! Will absolutely read the sequel
2574738483	3,5* - this was definitely a quick, intriguing and enjoyable read. I flew through it within a day and I rarely do that! The writing style was engaging and especially the short chapters kept me reading. Sadly, I couldn't connect to the characters at all.I was never scared for them, sad because something happened to them and I overall didn't really have any sympathy for them. I feel like there wasn't much emotional buildup. This definitely should've been longer, I wish more time was spent on introducing the characters and their lives. I'm also not sure how I feel about the introduction/explanation for the EO's. I could've used a little more of that as well. More time, where the characters explore their theories behind the science and reasons to why/how EO's exist, was needed. I'm looking forward to how those things are dealt with in the sequel!
5083401050	“life - the way it really is - is a battle not between bad and good, but between bad and worse”. this was completely unhinged and I was entranced from the very first sentence.
6133270377	Tej książce naprawdę daleko do ideału, ale wow, jak ja się dobrze na tym bawiłem xDRecenzja na yt: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GVfUJ...
2577424852	Absolutely worth the hypehttps://youtu.be/DFWwyLl2cfU
3313765139	This is the perfect book. You may not like it, but this is what peak performance looks like. 2020 First read: 4/5 2020 reread: 5/5 because I have taste now2023 reread: 5/5 the magnitude of my love for Victor Vale is arguably concerning and not normal.2023 reread, episode 2: read this back to back because I am sane and normal2023 reread, episode 3: I read this 3 times in a month, only stopping to read Vengeful 💀
2620538796	A book with not one, but two morally grey main characters? Sign me up!This was such a good read, i love stories where the main characters aren't your typical flawless hero and this book gave me plenty of that. This was such a unique and interesting concept, the characters were really well fleshed out and i loved that we got to experience multiple perspectives. This book is a hard one to describe, as it transcends genres and can't really be put in a box.You really want to go into Vicious knowing as little as possible, but its definitely worth the read!
7937001895	⁀ ⊹ ₊ Life—the way it really is—is a battle not between Bad and Good, but between Bad and Worse.when i first opened this book, i hadn't expected much because i went in blindly. imagine my surprise. what i got was a dark, twisted tale that made me see the world (and myself) in a new way. the novel forced me to think about revenge, ambition, and how thin the line can be between the good and the bad. after finishing it, i had been shaken awake. it slapped my brain so hard now that this book is imprinted itself in my head and it's refusing to let go. ── ୭ the characters who changed my life𖣠 victor vale:when i say i've never, EVER read a character like him, i mean it. victor is a formidable force of nature who absolutely blurs the lines between good and evil. his carries the ability to freely manipulate existing pain: increasing it, decreasing it, even inducing it, though he's best at developing what's already there. victor is a man with an ambition and a thirst for revenge that has consumed his entire life. his sworn mission is to kill the only person who was once his best friend, now his ultimate foe: eli cardale. on paper, victor is the villain of this story, but i found myself rooting for him in ways i never expected. he's the anti-hero. his character was so unbelievably amazing to read, and the way he was layered just kept surprising me.he's also a calculating sociopath who only does things he deems worth doing. cold hearted, possibly ruthless, victor doesn't have many morals, and yet, he always kills with a reason, taking no pleasure in taking lives. he’s also an atheist who can't face eli’s intense religious zeal, adding another layer to their philosophical clash. and despite his icy demeanor, he still has a soft spot for sydney. the complexity is just chefs kiss.⁀ ⊹ ₊ Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.𖣠 eliot cardale:i have SO many mixed feelings about this dude because i actually understand where he's coming from, even when he’s doing the absolute most. on the surface, eli is charming, charismatic, and incredibly amiable. he could gain anyone's trust quickly and had this aura that made him super popular back in university.but underneath that perfect mask, he's apathetic, manipulative, calculating, and incredibly self-righteous. eli is deeply religious and genuinely believes that the murder of EOs is God's will because, in his warped mind, they don't have souls. he's a conflicted and complicated character with a massive hero complex, truly believing he is doing the right thing by eliminating EOs (all of them, including himself, eventually).however, as the story unfolds, eli's motives become increasingly twisted. his desire to be a hero gets warped into a desperate need for control and validation, leading him down a seriously dark path. he thinks he’s doing the right thing, but his actions are often driven by ego and a warped, dangerous sense of justice. his character has a tragic arc, in a way, because you see the potential he had, and then witness how it crumbled.⁀ ⊹ ₊ Eli, who believed in God and had a monster inside just like Victor, but knew how to hide it better.𖣠 sydney clarke:absolute queen, sydney clarke. my pookie! i love her fucking so much! sydney is an EO with the incredibly unique ability to resurrect the dead just by touching them. i felt so bad for her because she adored her older sister, serena, only to be betrayed by her. this betrayal is what ultimately causes her to team up with victor, and it’s the best decision she ever made.her character growth is nothing short of amazing. watching her navigate this wild world, come into her own, and find her strength is just so satisfying. her character development here does so well, as she evolves from a vulnerable kid into a terrifying member of victor's unlikely crew. she's also one of the only few people that victor has a genuine soft spot for, which is a big deal coming from someone as cold as him lmao. ⁀ ⊹ ₊ Over the course of the last week safe had ceased to be a place for Sydney, and had become a person. Specifically, safe had become Victor.𖣠 mitchell turner:GOODDDD he deserves to be happy! i really loved how incredibly loyal he was towards victor, and how he stepped up to help sydney and protect her. mitch is one of the few main characters in vicious who isn't an EO, but don't let that fool you. he proves himself to be exceedingly smart and has an exceptional gift for hacking that makes him invaluable to victor's plans.plus one to his character because he's basically a teddy bear in a grumpy, tech savvy package, and he loves chocolate milk. he’s the wrecking force, the loyal friend, and the low key comic relief i need in this dark narrative. the heart of victor’s team, and i will die on this hill.⁀ ⊹ ₊ Trouble followed him like a shadow, clinging to him no matter how much good light he tried to stand in.𖣠 serena clarke:sydney’s older sister, had me going through it in the beginning. she's an EO with the ability to control people's minds with her words. her character was really, really selfish in the beginning, and i fucking hated her actions, especially the way she treated sydney. however, the end made me tear up, and i was so glad that serena's character was developed and helped to save sydney's life. it was a powerful, albeit late, moment of redemption that showed there was more to her than just her selfish exterior.⁀ ⊹ ₊ She realized that she wasn’t a ghost, or a god. She was a monster.𖣠 victor + elivictor and eli start as college friends who share a secret lab and a thirst for greatness. their bond is built on curiosity and the thrill of being different. the experiment they perform gives them powers, but it also splits their worldviews. eli embraces a religious, righteous mission. victor embraces a personal vendetta. their friendship destroys as each sees the other as a threat to what they now believe is the only truth. by the time the novel reaches halfway, the two are deadly enemies, each willing to kill the other to prove they are right.⁀ ⊹ ₊ He and Eli were bonded, by blood and death and science. They were alike more so now than ever. And he had missed Eli. He wanted to see him. And he wanted to see him suffer. He wanted to see the look in Eli's eyes when he lit them up with pain. He wanted his attention.── ୭ plot and writingthe story of vicious is like a lesson in non linear storytelling. the author mixes up different timelines, dropping hints at just the right times. this kept me excited, always questioning what i thought i knew. it’s a chaos of events that slowly unfolds, showing the reasons and effects of each character’s choices.for me, this unique style was super refreshing. it made me really intrested as a reader, pushing me to connect the dots instead of just soaking in the story. it made the plot hit harder because i was involved in finding out the conclusion. the pacing is good, with intense action scenes mixed in with quieter moments that explore the characters' minds.⁀ ⊹ ₊ “Be lost. Give up. give In. in the end It would be better to surrender before you begin. be lost. Be lost And then you will not care if you are ever found.”the author's writing in vicious is simply immaculate. her prose is incredibly atmospheric. the writing is simple and very easy to understand. what i loved the most was the author's ability to write the darker aspects of human nature with such grace and nuance. she wrote such amazing characters from the brutality, the selfishness, and flawed morality. if you're looking for a book that will challenge your perceptions of good and evil, introduce you to some of the most complex characters you'll ever meet, and keep you on the edge of your seat with its plot, then this book needs to be your next read.
1340163261	fulfilling my 2019 goal to read (at least) one book each month that has been digitally moldering, unread, on my NOOK for years and years and years.WAIT, SO IT'S FLATLINERS WITH X-MEN?review TK
1192328581	First read February 20, 2015.This was my first time rereading this wonderfully dark little book, and I loved it just as much the second time around.
6603594712	“Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” Two friends and college roommates turn enemies when an experiment for an academic thesis goes wrong. Leaving them with extra powers: one to heal and one to inflict or stop pain. When one friend betrays the other, getting him sent to prison for 10 years, revenge is all he wants when he escapes. This was my first book by V.E. Schwab and her writing is one of a kind. Truly addictive with memorable characters and a unique plot full of jealousy and betrayal. This was unlike any book I have ever read and at times it was morbid. Both characters spend the whole book trying to kill each other while killing others in the process. However, it was strangely and fascinatingly addictive.I love Victor and Sydney and thats all there is to it!❤️✨❤️*:･ﾟ✧ Favorite Quotes *:･ﾟ✧ “He wanted to care, he wanted to care so badly, but there was this gap between what he felt and what he wanted to feel, a space where something important had been carved out.” “You must make time for that which matters, for that which defines you: your passion, your progress, your pen. Take it up, and write your own story.” “The moments that define lives aren't always obvious. They don't always scream LEDGE, and nine times out of ten there's no rope to duck under, no line to cross, no blood pact, no official letter on fancy paper. They aren't always protracted, heavy with meaning.” 💖✨ Buddy Reading with my loves Bella & Noi ✨💖Pre-Read Review: Let's see if it's worth the hype! Been wanting to tackle this one for awhile now. I am so excited to start this and buddy reading it with my loves makes it even better.❤️✨
1698739874	Heads up on a giveaway, March 20, 2019: A free copy of Vicious is being given away to a random (US or Canada) commenter on this FanLit thread: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/give... . Odds of winning are excellent (usually 1 in 10 or 20).Review first posted on Fantasy Literature: Vicious is a dark and twisty tale of vengeance and super-powered people who you really don’t want to meet. Eli and Victor are two genius college friends and roommates who seem to be very different personalities on the surface but who share a similar ruthless streak. For their college senior theses, they experiment with the process of creating an EO or Extra-Ordinary, using themselves as human guinea pigs. Sooner than one might think, they figure it out. But an innocent person dies in the process, and it all goes downhill from there.Victor ends up in jail, carrying a murderous grudge against Eli, who he blames for his imprisonment, and Eli develops a twisted, quasi-religious mission to rid the world of all super-powered people, himself excluded. When Victor escapes from prison, he and Eli are at the top of each other’s snuff lists, even though their respective powers will make it difficult to kill the other. Each of them obsessively circles in on the other for the kill, with the assistance of some other gifted people: Eli has Serena, a young woman with a power that even Eli has a hard time combatting; Victor’s team is his former prison cellmate, Mitch, whose high intelligence is belied by his hulking physique, as well as Serena’s young sister Sydney.Vicious has a non-linear structure, with Eli’s and Victor’s current manhunt interspersed with frequent and sometimes fairly lengthy flashbacks to their college days and other key points in their lives and those of the other main characters. I’m not always a fan of random jumps in time, but here the current events drive us inexorably toward a savage conflict, while the glimpses into the past served to gradually illuminate their plans and motivations.Not everything in this story worked for me, and motivations were actually one of the weaker aspects of the tale, at times feeling more like authorial decisions made to move the plot forward, rather than integral aspects of the characters themselves. Despite Serena’s being persuaded by Eli that people (like herself) who have supernatural powers are “unnatural” and lack basic human feelings and compassion, I never really bought into Serena’s initial decision to lead Eli to her sister Sydney and allow him to [try to] kill her. A primary component of Eli’s current drive to eradicate EO people is his perverse religious belief, caused in large part by a piously cruel father. But again, as in Serena’s case, his ruthless, murderous campaign seems to lack sufficient motive, and it seems overly facile to blame religion for his acts.Despite some drawbacks, Vicious is a compelling read, tightly plotted and complex. Some of my initial assumptions and expectations were gratifyingly upended as the plot unfolded. Whether Extra-Ordinaries actually have been stripped of empathy and are all essentially supervillains is a question that is left somewhat ambiguous, but I tend to think V.E. Schwab isn’t going for the easy answer here.Content advisory: high violence content and language.
1345792326	Review first written: 6.19.16 Review last edited: 9.13.16 First read 7.27.15-8.04.15Second read: via audiobook in 9.25.16-10.16.16Third read: 2.17.17 infinity/5 stars“Someone could call themselves a hero and still walk around killing dozens. Someone else could be labeled a villain for trying to stop them. Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human. The difference between Victor and Eli, he suspected, wasn’t their opinion on EOs. It was their reaction to them...EOs were weapons, yes, but weapons with minds and wills and bodies, things that could be bent and twisted and broken and used. ” Once in a rare blue moon, a book comes around that changes your life forever. It grabs onto your heart, and every book you read from thereon out you compare to it. Somedays, you wake up and you crave the story. It’s a drug, almost, taking over your life so slowly that you don’t realize it controls you until you're so past too late it’s just a speck in the distance. For me, that book is Vicious.My original review, written right after I finished it in July of 2015, read, "Absolute amazingly written book, with very real, dark & flawed characters. I enjoyed every minute I spent reading it." but that just doesn’t give it justice. Now that I'm slowly getting better at writing reviews, I think I might be able to write something about Vicious that can truly show my love for this book. I think I've had more than enough time to gather my thoughts, a year almost, but we'll see. I'm sure that I'll be editing this review for months to come. I don't think any 5 star review is capable of giving this book the praise it deserves. I usually have a hard time choosing favorites. Whenever I try, I spill lists of items all connected by the word "or." It’s this or that or this. It’s that or this or that. Yet, when it comes to books, Vicious is my favorite. Vicious may always be my favorite. It's everything I ever want in a book, with a touch of things I never knew I needed. Vicious is a story of revenge, friendship, betrayal, superheroes, antiheroes. This book is a phoenix. It rises from the ashes of the expectations it burnt. "The absence of pain led to an absence of fear, and the absence of fear led to a disregard for consequence." How to describe Victoria’s writing? It’s lemonade on a hot summer day. It’s the feel of water and sand between your toes. It’s Christmas morning. It’s the way your stomach tumbles as you jump off a swing. It’s riding a bike for the first time without training wheels. It just is, and it always will be, beautiful.If you have read any of her other books, you’d understand.I read a chapter of Vicious to a creative writing class months ago. A short chapter of Victor and Sydney in the graveyard, and just with Victoria’s words, I had people coming up to me after class wanting more, asking me where they could get their hands on a copy of the book. I'll told them instantly, as I'll always gladly endorse this book as much as I can. In fact, the day my friend came up to me and proudly proclaimed she had finally read it (and she didn't know what took her so long), was truly a great day. It was the first time, after constant nagging, someone finally listened to me and realized I was right all along. This book truly is something amazing. "Victor Vale was not a fucking sidekick ." The characters are thunderstorms. It’s impossible to know if you should stare in fascination, or hide in fear. You can’t guess when the thunder they create is going to rock the world. You hate the main character, Victor Vale. It’s easy to hate him. Being in his head is a roller coaster, one that takes you for loop after loop. You disagree with everything he says and does. He takes a 12 year old girl to dig up a dead body. He tortures without second thought. He seeks revenge on a person who used to be his best friend. Yet, after all the despicable things he does, part of you loves him. You root for him. You want to see him succeed. There is so many things about Vicious that I love. I had the oppurtunity to meet Victoria Schwab, my idol, and have this book autographed. If I ever had to rescue a book from a fire, I would instantly choose this one. Vicious is worth the read. It’s worth the reread. It’s worth taking the risk and loaning it to a friend. Vicious is just worth it.
2478955175	5 STARS FOR THE PERFECTION THAT IS THIS DARK BOOK ABOUT VILLAINS THAT I HAVE ALWAYS WANTEDNote: This book is very dark. There are lots of trigger warnings for this book including lots of violence and suicide.
1698157963	Wow this book! It really made me think with the whole good vs. evil thing! Loved this book!
3283359384	Victor Vale single handedly ended all bad boys by being the baddest. I mean, he puts a lot of antagonists to shame, and we’re lucky enough to follow him as a main character. Who knew our lives desperately needed a story surrounding villains and anti-heroes?“Plenty of humans were monstrous, and plenty of monsters knew how to play at being human.” ~★~ What is this book about? ~★~ When this story begins, Victor Vale and Eli are simply best friends in college. Thing take a turn for the worst when Eli chooses to do his thesis on ExtraOrdinaries -or the possibility of people with powers. It is suggested that a near death experience could be the key to unlocking Extraordinary abilities, and Victor voices that they should attempt it. This is how the two delve into a competition of merits and begin trying their hand at a bundle of near suicides. Hoping, really, for the possible outcome of power. The result is disastrous, landing Victor in jail. Ten years later, he breaks out with one goal: Kill Eli.~★~V.E. Schwab has done it again. I wish I could say I was surprised. This novel was absolutely brilliant to say the least; the exploration of obsession and corruption linked to power was pulled off wonderfully. It’s fascinating to be inside the minds of Victor Vale and Eli Cardale over the span of ten years. Everyone was a borderline psychopath, and I'll be damned if I wasn't living for the drama. “I want to believe that there’s more. That we could be more. Hell, we could be heroes.”I’m not sure if I’d belive myself if I mentioned I read this book because of a quote. It was because of the one right above, in fact. It caught my eye and I immediately went searching for the original source, which just so happened to be Vicious! The writing was spectacular. If you’ve read anything by Schwab, this should come as no surprise. The worldbuilding and provided backstory for the protagonists and side characters made for a really well structured book. Everyone had their motives for being bad. The amount of times I was left speechless by the extremity of events taking place was--I assure you--very high.If it was not obvious, I’d recommend this book to everyone and their mothers in search of a great anti-hero story! I've never read anything like this before; the absolute insanity of the cast guaranteed that I couldn't stop reading. “Victor vale was not a fucking sidekick.”
1679155743	DNF @ 60% + an extremely unpopular opinion amount my GR friends. This book has taken me four days to hit 60%. Not because Vicious is a long book, no I could actually read it in 6 hours if I wanted to. However, I hated this book. This book was on the backburner of my TBR until I saw one of my close friends, Em had loved it. Well, I no longer trust Em's opinion because I have never been so bored during a book. To sum up my thoughts: Every character is bland. The backstories suck. There is not a single vicious person.60% of the book and nothing had happened. I can't believe it. How does that happen? I have never been so infuriated. The concept of this book was interesting but execution was simply poor and uninteresting. If the author had maybe stuck to not switching time periods every single chapter it may have flowed a lot better and let me, the audience, feel more sympathy for the characters. I also want to point out I expected a lot more brutality throughout this book but was sorely disappointed. I'm someone who likes death descriptions and a lot of murder like a messed up person, and despite the story which this book told I got none. I may go back to this one day simply becasue I hate owning books I haven't read. It is either that or regifting it.Mildly afraid my friends are going to crucifix me for this opinion, but what can I do? I tried.
6091949373	RATING BREAKDOWNCharacters: 5⭐️Setting: 5⭐️Plot: 5⭐️Themes: 4⭐️Emotional Impact: 4⭐️Personal Enjoyment: 5⭐️Total Rounded Average: 4.75⭐️God this is an excellent specimen of tight narrative, original characters, and an unexpected plot delivered at a dramatic pace with clever and effective structure. Masterfully done! V.E. Schwab takes the expected lawful-good superhero archetype, and twists it to write Eli and Victor—best friends and academic rivals, turned extra-ordinary—who are driven by ego, ambition, and relentless obsession. Clever enough on its own, but then she writes them so the reader cares about them! I was so invested by the climax, that I didn't know if I could be satisfied with any outcome, and then I was.The plot of this story is so clean and delivered so well, I could hardly put it down. There is no filler. And I loved the academic setting. It helped shape the two characters and gave the book a tone reminiscent of other classics in the Dark Academia genre.I have no notes on this one besides checking trigger warnings. This is a villain origin story and there is murder, violence against women (not sexual), many near-death experiences, and lots of death in general. It reads a bit like a thriller. I'm obsessed with this one. Highly recommend to thriller, fantasy, and literary fiction readers alike. V.E. Schwab just absolutely nailed it with this one. I know there is a sequel, but I feel extremely satisfied with where this left off.
1239231574	2023: Yup. We're here again. Without shock, this remains a 5 star. I adore this book. Schwab through her back out writing this."There are no good men in this game." UGH! Such a good way to surmise everything that's said or done in this book.You find yourself rooting for very unlikeable people. But you feel justified because whoever they're opposing seem SO much worse. What's interesting about that is it all depends on your perspective. I buddy read this with my patrons and we all had widely varying opinions on the characters. Some of us loved Victor's cold, calculating Sherlockian demeanor and despised Eli's righteous, God-chose-me, cult leader smile (me tbh). Some loved Eli's entertaining and dramatic debonair and found Victor pathetic and whiny. Some loved Serena's maniacal villainess and saw Sydney as a mere shadow of her sister's brilliance. Some thought both sisters were equally engaging but didn't agree with either necessarily. Some hated Mitch and Sydney because they felt the 'found family' elements of the story detrimental to the intelligence and moral ambiguity the plot was going for. But we ALL enjoyed it. This is a booktube darling for a reason. It has forever secured its place as a favorite book of all time. I will never stop recommending this book.2020: Reread this book and it is even better than I remember! So complex and exciting. An all time favorite.I do wonder if there are people out there who root for Eli and...why?2016: I reread this book at some point in 2016 but I can't remember when. I just know that I'd listened to the audio in 2015 and wanted to get a physical copy to read with my peepers.2015: Phenomenal! Is it too soon to say this author is my new obsession? I went to bookmark everything she's ever written on my Amazon wishlist when I was barely halfway through the book.I blew through this book. it was such an exhilerating adventure. I enjoyed the varied points of view. What inspired me the most was the lack of conventional compassion and black-and-white morals of this story. It took a concept that many authors would have broken into archetypal goods and bads and instead turned it into motives and egotism. I was completely fascinated the entire way through. I loved every character even if I didnt agree with them because I could still understand them and that is honestly all I want from an author - realistic reasoning and responses.
2403616631	I loved this deeply. That's really all you need to know.* * *My first ever Victoria Schwab book!! (Even though I own four of her books already, but I've been scared to start our relationship with the wrong one but this one feels right and I'm glad to finally be breaking through this barrier and yes, I overthink things.) My expectations are through-the-roof-high but I have a feeling they will be met. (view spoiler)[Also, Victoria is, like, the best person so it's about time. (hide spoiler)]
6431778000	Wow this was an incredibly addictive read. I loved the two rival character arcs, reminded me of The Prestige. V.E Schwabs writing is superb. I will definitely be reading the sequel this year.4.5/5
