3385943213	⇓ Edited to Add: On the Controversy ⇓ Since its release, this book has been accused of racism. I respect those who have been hurt and am sorry for their pain, but I want to say that—as a Middle Eastern who has also strived to be as aware of racism as possible—I personally did not find this book racist. Most of the accusations I’ve read have seemed insubstantial to me—if you view words out of context with the aim of finding something offensive, of course you will succeed.The school giving El content showing death and violence, urging her to become a mass murderer, happens for all nations as a result of her dark affinity and not just an Arabic speaking country. The issue of how languages/cultures are viewed cynically by the MC (e.g. characters being called “the Arabic speaker”) is not a sign of the author’s thoughtlessness but the truth of how El—who is deeply antisocial due to the abuse she’s faced from everyone (not just some of the Indian side of her biracial family)—sees life, with people as only assets in her eyes. This does not mean Novik endorses these views; she proves her thoughtfulness by proceeding to thoroughly tackle themes of injustice and privilege.However, there is a harmful comment on dreadlocks for which Novik immediately apologised (source) admitting her mistake in adding the passage very late and after the sensitivity read, and that she’d meant to write only “locs.” It makes sense that El would, again, cynically analyse the practicality of various elaborate hairstyles in this deadly school; the problem was how dreadlocks were singled out, and Novik humbly apologised, promising to fix it and detailing how she would do better in the future.So yes I love this book and author, not least because that was one of the best and most genuine apologies I’ve read. Isn’t raising awareness the ultimate goal? What can we possibly achieve by shutting down people after one mistake?I also urge you to read the words of THIS CHINESE REVIEWER before marching into battle. Leave a comment if you’re interested in a discussion. ⇓ Actual Review ⇓ If Hogwarts was a prickly, sentient, professorless school infested with demons, and the lead was an angry, dark Queen of Sarcasm and prophesied harbinger of death, trying to study and survive...or die, you’d have this book.Do I have your attention yet? You have to ration sympathy and grief in here the way you ration your school supplies. Naomi Novik’s new series The Scholomance is, obviously, inspired by the folkloric Scholomance, a fabled school of black magic in Transylvania run by the devil.There are apparent differences, of course; in that no one runs this school except for magic, and that this deadly version of the academy is the closest young witches and wizards can come to a protected and safe environment during their vulnerable teen years, as they happen to live in a world where their magic-filled bodies are to the monsters what marshmallow crunch brownie bars dripping with chocolate are to yours truly:That is, y u m m y. Nobody gets to live or not live because they deserve it, deserving doesn’t count for a thing. With an awesome unlikeable MC (just my type), LOL-producing writing, mouthwatering world-building, YA highschool-ish vibe, and chilling, gag-inducing creatures roaming the hallways, bathrooms, and all the nooks and crannies of the insubstantial and magical structure of the place (one of which nearly gave me—Queen of Being Unperturbed By Dreams and Thrilled By What Most Consider Nightmares—nightmares) this could’ve easily been an entertaining five star read, if not for the info dumps.I enjoy info dumps. I really do. I even binge-read Wikipedia in my free time. But there is something called “this is not the place dammit I’m excited for something else move aside,” m’dear. It’s too easy to call people evil instead of their choices, and that lets people justify making evil choices, because they convince themselves that it’s okay because they’re still good people overall, inside their own heads. I’ll just continue to appreciate the tackling of struggles rising from mixed ethnicity and not fitting anywhere, applaud the diversity that extends to even food, fall in love with the dominant theme of inequality and privilege so thoroughly explored, make puppy eyes the attention to science and technicalities, and be absorbed by the focus on carefully and creatively crafted lessons and study strategies, all while listening to my book playlist on repeat (which you can find at the end of the review) and waiting for the sequel. ⇓ Storyline ⇓ (Most) all memorable heroes have a prophecy. Well, so does El. It just so happens that hers isn’t a prophecy of saving the world blah blah, it’s one of death and destruction. Charming, right?Unfortunately, for some unknown reason, no one else thinks so.Thus our snarky little main character will have to navigate school without allies, the consequence of which would not be a lonely, dejected life, but rather death at graduation when she will have to pass through a hall of monsters to get out of the damned place without anyone watching her back.She intends to avoid that, of course, which means this dark witch needs to focus on smooth talking the politics and sitting arrangements of school life and establishing herself as a powerful addition to any interested group (much like peacocks tidying their feathers and attracting mates, one might say), while at the same time studying and surviving and making sure she doesn’t slaughter thousands to do so. Easy peasy.So I believe you realise how annoying it is for a shining hero by the name of Orion Lake to swoop in, repeatedly, and turn her into a damsel in distress. Selfish of me, you’ll say, to be contemplating with murderous intent the hero responsible for the continued survival of a quarter of our class. Well, too bad for the losers who couldn’t stay afloat without his help. We’re not meant to all survive, anyway. The school has to be fed somehow. ⇓ Storytelling ⇓ I didn’t want to actually become a maleficer and then go bursting out of this place like some monstrous butterfly hatching from a gigantic chrysalis of doom to lay waste and sow sorrow across the world as per the prophecy. A Deadly Education is my first book by Naomi Novik but can I just say that I stan her style??Witty, humourous, and sprinkled with exactly the right amount of absurdity in her genius similes and metaphors, Novik has immediately established her herself as a new fave author of mine with her technique. I’m telling you, even the (admittedly too frequent and unflattering) info dumps were done with such a unique touch that I’m simply impressed! The banter. The hilarious moments brewed and executed so aptly. Ahhh. “I know you’re just waiting for us to put your statue up, but that’s no reason to carry on like a slab of solid rock.” The best part of the storytelling was, however, the way the author somehow threw thriller and humour in the same pot and unbelievably got a delicious unputdownable stew out of it. I mean, we would encounter a petrifying monster that had me on the verge of screaming and we are about to die and yet Naomi proceeds to kindly point you toward more books for further information. Like, WHAT. My expression was something between 😱 and 😂; upon messing around with the emojis, this is the closest I’ve gotten: ⇓ Characters ⇓ ◈ Galadriel aka El: Meet the protagonist; a powerful witch with an affinity for dark magic so deadly even minor spells can turn into catastrophes—lonely, angry, bitter, sarcastic, smart, creative, natural with incantations, and shunned by anyone and everyone. And, whadayaknow, I was never ever annoyed by her snappish ungrateful behaviour because she’s just pure tragedy and has every right to be as she is—I even urged her on if I’m being honest, and yes you now may go ahead and call me crazy yay. “You feel like it’s going to rain.”“What?”But Aadhya was already waving her hands around and elaborating. “You know that feeling when you’re a mile away from anywhere, and you didn’t take your umbrella because it was sunny when you left, and you’re in your good suede boots, and suddenly it gets dark and you can tell it’s about to start pouring buckets, and you’re like Oh great.” She nodded to herself, satisfied with her brilliant analogy. “That’s what it feels like, whenever you show up.” It’s painful to be judged before you’ve had a chance. And El, my baby, has always had the worst assumed about her because of her power and the wrongness it projects to others—even as an innocent child. And tired and full of hate, she becomes the angry bitter person everyone now rightly avoids. I understood how she wanted to be wanted for herself and didn’t care for being wanted by the many self-serving people around her. I shared her emotions and bitterness at what kept happening to her. But more than anything else, I loved her acknowledgement of her anger issues. So yes, I spent the entire book chanting go dark go dark kill them all, praying she’d end up going down the terrifying sorceress path prophecised for her. And yes, I am still praying.⤷ I see her as Disney’s Megara ⤵ ◈ Orion Lake: Meet the love interest; initially annoying, generally unbelievable and bewildering, messy, clueless, also lonely bulldozer of a hero who is such a hero that, at some points, it stops being annoying (to me, I mean, the evil soul who can’t stand these Gryffinpuffs) and starts being hilarious and even adorable. How I ended up loving this privileged, sheltered boy acting all gloriously good and gracious, going around killing monsters as if they are the real baddies of this unjust world...is anyone’s guess. It might have to do with how much of a sweet and non-toxic boy he is.⤷ To me, he’s a total Hercules ⤵ ◈ Everyone Else: I think I need to stop rambling before you guys come hunt me down and kill me in the most gruesome ways you can imagine for writing and writing and writing and WRITING nonstop like a typing machine gone rouge. I’ll only say the rest were fleshed out as well and even our Mean Girl was More Than Just A Mean Girl. ⇓ Relationships ⇓ The dynamic of Gal (protagonist) and Orion (love interest) is practically Megara and Hercules from Disney’s 1997 animation. In short: So thank you, Naomi Novik, for giving me a new cute, crazy, quietly-brewing, enemies-to-reluctant-allies-to-not-yet-lovers, promising romance with such a hilarious bond that jumps right out of the page, grabbing me by the throat with its grasping hands made of iconic banter and scenes. And thank you, for the beautifully written journey of discovering what loyalty, understanding, and acceptance in friendship feel like—especially female ones.See? I can keep it short, too. #yayme ⇓ Worldbuilding ⇓ This world. THIS WORLD. What can I say to encompass the massive amount of awe-inspiring info delivered in these 300+ pages? A world with magic-eating monsters where the privileged live in protected enclaves and the rest of the rabble fend for themselves and, inevitably, die. A moody school in the place between nowhere and everywhere that relies on belief to stay upright, so dangerous you have to check every step lest a nightmare jump out from beneath the table and eat you alive. And pure madness.You’re probably wondering: How in the world would an academy with no adults and teachers actually function? Why would students be crammed into a building, all as perfect bait for the hungry demons? And trust me, dear Naomi has thought of every criticism and argument and counter-argument (like someone y’all know *winky wink*), and discussed them to make impossible “I’m possible.”To be honest, I’ve never been especially fond of the teacher-student dynamic as to me it’s unnecessary in most cases—I understand that many need someone to explain what they read to them but, for me, there’s nothing I can’t learn through reading a book or being observant and practicing; in fact, I prefer not to have some teacher keep irritating me and telling me what to do. That’s why I found the professorless school Naomi Novik has come up with to be extremely relatable and rather refreshing when every “magic school” book centres around it. In Scholomance, you either study independently or with your friends’ help, or you die.Fascinating and insane, that’s the only way to put it.An Scholomance-library-sized thanks to my superhero for sending me an eARC from Edelweiss! ⇓ Companions ⇓ Book playlist: Spotify URL Books in series: ⤷ A Deadly Education (The Scholomance, #1) ★★★★☆⤷ The Last Graduate (The Scholomance, #2) ☆☆☆☆☆
3585134911	Harry Potter’s massive cultural impact means that we haven’t seen the last of magic schools set in Britain, and we probably won’t for a long while. In some ways, the fantasy genre’s response to Rowling’s work is tiresome. In others, it’s exciting—because a generation of readers and writers have grown up to bring their own perspective to the limits of Rowling’s work and push it beyond the limits of its author. However, if you’re looking for a transgressive magic academy book that interrogates the limited morality, inclusivity, and perspective of Harry Potter, you should put Naomi Novik’s A Deadly Education back on the shelf and keep looking. A Deadly Education tells the story of Galadriel “El” Higgins, a half-British half-Indian sorcerer attending a magic school where the consequences of any mistake might mean sudden death. El is a loner by nature and circumstance, but walking alone in the halls of Scholomance might mean being attacked and devoured by one of the school’s monsters. This puts El on a crash course with Orion Lake, the shining hero of her year who takes it upon himself to save the lives of his fellow students, including a less-than-grateful El. The set up honestly sounds pretty good—a prickly protagonist, a heroic rival-slash-love interest, a deadly setting, and the potential for deep lore in magic and world-building. Unfortunately, not only does Novik fail to deliver on any of the premises’ strengths, she also chooses to weigh her narrative down with reductive, tone-deaf, and downright racist details. El’s particular class of magic relies on language. El speaks English and Marathi, and picks up Sanskrit, Hindi, Latin and Old English in her study of language-based spells. It’s a little uncomfortable that Novik lumps dead and defunct languages like Latin and Old English together with actively spoken ones like Mandarin, Hindi, and Spanish, but that isn’t where Novik’s faux paus end. El approaches languages like computer programs to be downloaded onto her hard drive. Despite languages being the basis of her magic, she has no personal connections to the ones she’s speaking. She views other students and their languages the same way, identifying groups of students as “the Mandarin speakers”, “the Arabic speakers,” etc. Novik seems clueless about the relationships between the languages she’s building her world’s magic around, putting Sanskrit tombs in Baghdad and declaring that the Scholomance has a library aisle containing all of India’s languages. (About 800 individual languages are spoken in India, fyi.)This clinical approach to diversity extends from language into character. El doesn’t try to make many friends, and honestly it’s not hard to see her classmates don’t try to befriend her, either. She doesn’t describe her classmates as people—she describes them as assets. And while that could be explained away by the premise that half her classmates won’t make it out of school alive, and El needs allies more than friends to survive, it doesn’t make it any better when El refers to others exclusively by the language knowledge they offer her. A character named Ibrahim has no personality or backstory, but he conveniently pops up when El needs someone who knows Arabic. A character named Kaito is thoughtlessly grouped in with the Mandarin speakers. An Argentine character exclaims in Spanish when she’s excited or relieved. There’s an uncomfortable distinction between the languages that get written out in the text—Spanish, French—and the ones that get narrated away—a character exclaims in Mandarin. Novik goes out of her way to let us know that the population of Scholomance is diverse. There’s a group of South and West African students (only one of whom is named, and none of whom are important). There’s a “civilized” enclave of magicians in Toronto who value family and human life more than other groups. One character might graduate and go to Bangkok, but he’s looking to secure himself a place in Shanghai instead. Naomi Novik really knows the names of cities on at least four continents, and she’s not about to let you forget it!But aside from names, languages, and cities, Novik has given no thought to what diversity means, or who these characters are if they come from diverse backgrounds. El calls on “Mandarin-speaker,” Yi Liu, exclusively by the name Liu. Is Liu meant to be this character’s first name? Or her surname? El doesn’t call anyone else by surname, but Liu is a Chinese surname, one of the most common in the world. El’s father is a Marathi-speaker from Mumbai, but El has no personal connection to Indian culture. Her father’s family prophesied that El would be a destroyer, and other than that rejection El has nothing to say about India or half of her culture. She refers to her Indian relatives in clinical English descriptors (my father’s mother, my great-grandmother, my uncles), even though she is purportedly fluent in Marathi and should know words like Panaji, Aaji and Kaka. El says that her Indian family is from an old Hindu enclave, and yet they have djinn as servants. (Djinn aren’t a typical part of Hindu cosmology, though they are a significant part of Islamic texts.)Making El biracial seems like an afterthought, not something that affects her character in any way. It just creates some truly unfortunate optics, like when El goes on a three-paragraph description of how unnecessary she finds showers and how dirty she is at any given time. El’s father died making sure her pregnant mother (and therefore, El herself) would live, and yet El barely thinks about him. His name is mentioned once in the entire book. El complains that (presumably white) British people “assume she speaks Hindi” or call her the color of weak tea. But her Indian heritage is a veneer placed on top of a character who is otherwise just a default white protagonist.All this adds up to a character (and a world), that reads as nothing so much as colonial. El feasts on the languages of others for her own edification, power, and survival, but she doesn’t see her classmates as people, and she doesn’t see language as a living thing related to real cultures. And I’m given to believe that Naomi Novik holds the same views, what with how she throws around the word “mana” as part of her world-building without considering its roots and real-life meaning to Polynesian and Melanesian peoples.However, nothing makes the cultural tone-deafness of this book more evident than this passage:Dreadlocks are unfortunately not a great idea thanks to lockleeches, which you can probably imagine, but in case you need help, the adult spindly thing comes quietly down at night and pokes an ovipositor into any big clumps of hair, lays an egg inside, and creeps away. A little while later the leech hatches inside its comfy nest, attaches itself to your scalp almost unnoticeably, and starts very gently sucking up your blood and mana while infiltrating further. If you don’t get it out within a week or two, it usually manages to work its way inside the skull, and you’ve got a window of a few days after that before you stop being able to move. On the bright side, something else usually finishes you off quickly at that point.El’s pithy commentary about imminent death aside, I have a hard time reading anything but casual and thoughtless racism from this passage. The nefarious and deliberate myth of dreadlocks being unhygienic (and by extension, Black people being endemically dirty) is pervasive to this day. And Naomi Novik decides to include this passage in a book that has no major Black characters, in which dreadlocks never even come up in any meaningful way, just to remind us that in this magic world of hers, dreadlocks are dirty! Monster insects nest in them! The consequences are death! There was no good reason to include this passage, and all it does is draw on inaccurate and racist myths and perpetuate them into a world where anti-Black racism is never contended with. Although, I suppose, why would it? El never has need of any languages from the West or South Africans.A Deadly Education bills itself as a subversive, even feminist, response to Harry Potter. But just like J. K. Rowling, Naomi Novik is a white author who uses other cultures thoughtlessly to build her own magic world. Other cultures and peoples exist, but only to serve the aims and needs of white (or mostly white-coded) characters. Novik has no empathy, no care and apparently no ability to Google anything about the cultures she wants to draw on. And the result isn’t just insulting—it’s boring. The world-building in this book is as dry and dusty as any history written by 19th century British colonizers. Using some foreign names and making your protagonist biracial does not shield your work from racism. It does open you up to more pitfalls in depicting other peoples and cultures, if you don’t care to look out for them. It would be nice to close by saying that despite its flaws, A Deadly Education is an enjoyable book. But it isn’t. It’s just a badly-researched, emotionless story told by rote.
3299829307	My favorite part about this book was the relationship between El and Orion. El’s prickly attitude towards Orion, who does nothing but nice things for her, totally amused me from beginning to end and I found their dynamic to be silly and endearing. The writing style very much rambles since it’s directly from El’s voice, and is therefore peppered with sarcasm and brooding petulance. This book would be better enjoyed by people who like reading dark academia YA stories (it definitely steers younger rather than adult), expositional world building, and lots of inner monologue. You have to be invested in the world of these magic schools to want to go through the info dumps, as well as like the main character to enjoy her style of rambling.As for some of the criticisms the book has faced, I agree that singling out dreadlocks was an oversight on Novik’s part, and likely her attempt at adding extra detail to her world building. After reading the book for full context, I definitely think it was not necessary to the plot at all, so I’m glad she’ll be taking them out in future publications because such oversights are not worth stirring up controversy. I don’t quite agree with the criticisms about El’s biracial identity, because there are many diaspora people who don’t feel connected to their culture, and we should be mindful of not invalidating their experiences that are similar to El’s. To me, this book is not trying to tackle racial diversity (I would hope not, since that’s going to automatically be a losing battle for any white author) but instead touches more upon class privilege with the way that enclaves are set up and conversations that El has with Orion.Regardless, I would still rather read this than Harry Potter.
3525672368	Hogwarts meets Deadly Class’ world building with sassy, smart, humorous vibes, completely badass, snarky, grumpy, sarcastic queen as a heroine and a clueless hero walking between the lines of being irritating and hysterical.I was waiting more bloodshed, bleak, horrifying, gory premise but instead of that I got dark comedy with creative ideas, deliciously absurd twists, extremely entertaining, addictive story with a sassiest and smartest ( of course she is half Indian, half Welsh) heroine called El who slays the monsters hiding in the professor-less, creepy Scholomance, an ideal educational institution at the post-Corona world! But don’t worry she can kick all those vicious monsters’ asses, stay alive and continue to her precious education, thanks to the help of her protector Orion Lake! No more words. No more clues: Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it! Read it!Overall; I haven’t so much fun for a long time! I want more ASAP!
3507227588	well, its official - third time is not the charm. i assumed because this is NNs first try at the YA genre, her storytelling would feel more modern and less stuffy than her adult fairytale retellings. but nope. this is the exact same slogging narrative i have come to know and dislike. NNs style of 80% internal monologue/narration is just not for me. theres just a lot of info-dumping, tedious and repetitive descriptions, and too much telling/not enough showing for my liking. i also had a massive problem with the main character. she annoyed me right from the first page. shes rude, obnoxious, selfish, and the most infuriating character i have ever read. the thing is, she knows she is like this, but she doesnt care. i had very low hopes for a redemption arc, but that never happened. surprise surprise. all of these things lead me to start skimming at about 35% mark because i was ready for the story to be done and over with. i think fans of NN will enjoy this, because this is more of the same, but i think its finally time for me to admit she is not an author for me.↠ 1.5 stars
3935393357	I love magical schools but this was disappointing.Didn't care for the characters, the setting, the story... most of it tbh.
7979013154	I liked that the book ended. Thanks to sweet Yuvi for reading it with me and suffering through it with me. ~•~•~Have heard it's like Harry Potter but darker.
4298976383	WOOOOOOWW........GOOD SHIT!That's it. That's my review. Am I a professional or what. Honestly a super super strong 4 STARS for me. Hmmmm 4.5? I reaaallly enjoyed this; I actually didn't think I would at first. But after the hurdle through the first fifty pages, dannngg I really ate this up. If anybody asks me what this book is about, I literally still don't have a clue. I would say 60% went over my head with all the mechanics and magics and works of the place, system, school, whatever. And the exposition.....gOod gOd tHe eXPoSiTiON!!!!!!This book should have been called A DEADLY EXPOSITION because I kid you not, if you took that all out, this book- the actual story- it would have been like 60 pages long. I don't think I've ever given such a high rating to a book containing and the majority filled with so much fucking backstory and information....but no regrets here.Oh did I tell you I literally just bought the second book too? So no cliffhangers for me thank you very much!! Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
3585802370	Dangerously good.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
3539570912	Only 13 chapters but glorious to no end!EDIT 1: It seems that some people have gone out of their way (and, likely, minds!) to label this book a racist one. Well, I'd advise them to have their brains checked since they seem to be morons. There isn't anything even remotely racist in here. Races aren't even discussed. The languages that are. Discussed. Are discussed in a general multicultural way. So no need to go crazy. Amen! EDIT 2: It seems that NN was forced to apologise for the passage on dreadlocks that can get infested with magical pests. Yuck. There's nothing wrong with the description. There's everything wrong with the apology: it shouldn't exist in the 1st place.Real life dreadlocks can be made of any hair whatsoever. I've seen people from about every race and many nations wearing them. Real life dreadlocks without proper hygiene can also get infested by creepy-crawleys since the bugs never ask people what their race or nationality or anthing else are. Lice generally don't chat. I sincerely hope that the whole debacle's just a PR stunt of NN's since I don't really want to believe that any readers could be stupid enough to demand an apology for such a thing.EDIT 3: Fantasy is fantasy for a reason. People getting offended at fantastic characters learning languages must be sick. What next? Will languages become a forbidden subject? We're so moving towards 1984! As a person from multiple cultures who enjoys learning various languages and cultures, I love the take on El and most other students being polyglots. As for them not going in for full on cultural immersion, I think that's bonkers: we were explained in fantastic detail how even taking showers is resource-heavy, how they need to work all the time just to stay alive and build some mana and keep themselves marginally fed. They all are in a void and not just culturally but literally the whole school is suspended somewhere in some void. So being somewhat disconnected culturalwise is a given of the fantasy setting and not a racist mission statement. I'm pretty sure they all've got lives before them to go being the cultural fiends on the languages they've learned. And at Scholomance they first need to survive and to do that they need being able to cast spells in different languages. Also, what the hell? Who of their sane mind would go crazy lovey-dovey on the culture of the side of the family that tried to do maybe murder them in their crib due to some doom and gloom profecy? Also, if El starts getting interested in, say, Mandarin, she's going to be forced by the school to learn it and immediately start doing charms and sit exams in it and suffer life-threatening consequences if she fails learning it. She's even afraid at looking at library books titles in the languages she doesn't take. So... El has plenty of good reason to be cagey about at least some cultures. Plot-wise. Not because being culturally aloof is her life mission. Considering that I'm usually the 1st person to bash cultures being misrepresented in what seems to be every 3d book I read, it's a relief that for once I'm quite happy about the multicultural approach.Anyway, I'd love to see the stats on the languages that the people who bash the linguistic component actually know. I'm pretty sure no one who isn't fluent at 10 languages at least has any right to bash how languages are depicted studied in here. Why 10? Like our fictional El, even though 3 of hers are dead ones.END OF RANT✧ ⌘✦ ✧ ⌘✦ ✧ ⌘✦ ✧ ⌘✦ ✧ ⌘✦REVIEW STARTSo, the book is phenomenal! Q: I love having existential crises at bedtime, it's so restful. (c)Q: That sort of thing is always happening to me. Some sorcerers get an affinity for weather magic, or transformation spells, or fantastic combat magics like dear Orion. I got an affinity for mass destruction. It’s all my mum’s fault, of course, just like my stupid name. ... when I want to straighten my room, I get instructions on how to kill it with fire. (c) Of course. This is a book that I've been valiantly trying reading at lunch. Multiple times before I realised that this is not a lunch-reading book. At all. That reading about things that 'rot from the inside and then collapse on themselves is not a great appetizer'.And I almost wound up hating it for ruining lots of lunchtimes for me. Good thing I changed my reading habits for it, ultimately.Galadriel (Gal, El) needs to kill Orion Lake since he's cramping her style. And the school's getting hungry-ish and gives her all the 'delightful cataclysmic spells' it can find lying about in voids.Her personality is horrible enough to be endearing. Professor Snape, is that you masquerading as Galadriel?? Beautiful name, BTW.Q:We’re not meant to all survive, anyway. The school has to be fed somehow. (c)That's quite the backflash:Q:“I don’t want to summon an army of scuvara! I don’t want to conjure walls of mortal flame! I want my bloody room clean!” ...What came flying out of the void in answer was a horrible tome encased in some kind of pale crackly leather with spiked corners that scraped unpleasantly as it skidded to me across the metal of the desk. The leather had probably come off a pig, but someone had clearly wanted you to think it had been flayed from a person, which was almost as bad, and it flipped itself open to a page with instructions for enslaving an entire mob of people to do your bidding. I suppose they would have cleaned my room if I told them to. (c)Gal is a polyglot: Marathi, Hindi, French, Spanish, Sanskrit, Latin, German, and Middle and Old English... Gotta love the take on Bullshit Jobs: A Theory:Q:Most wizards don’t bother with mundane work—it’s considered a bit low—or if they do, they hunt themselves out an empty sack of a job. The person who retires from the firm after forty-six years and no one quite remembers what they were doing, the befuddled librarian that you occasionally glimpse wandering the stacks without seeming to do anything, the third vice president of marketing who shows up only for meetings with senior management; that sort of thing. There’re spells to find those jobs or coax them into existence, and then you’ve provided yourself with the necessities of life and kept your time free to build mana and make your cheap flat into a twelve-room mansion on the inside. (c) Yeah, I'm persuaded a librarian's salary will pay for that mansion.Q: Doing magic in front of someone who doesn’t believe in it is loads harder. (c) I'm pretty sure this applies to anything. Not just magic. Q:I already know ten times more spells for destruction and dominion than the entire graduating class of seniors put together. You would too if you got five of them every time you wanted to mop the bloody floor. (c)Q: What is it with you, are you actively trying to meet new and exciting mals? ...“Don’t you like practicing your affinity?” ...“My affinity is laying waste to multitudes, so I haven’t had much opportunity to try the experience,” (c)Q:It’s not that I’m ugly; on the contrary, I’ve been growing increasingly beautiful in a tall and alarming way, as befits the terrible dark sorceress I’m meant to be, at least until I presumably collapse into a grotesque crone. Boys often think for about ten seconds that they might want to go out with me, and then they look into my eyes or talk to me and I suppose get the strong impression I’m likely to devour their souls or something. (c)Q:I did notice him seething, but I was too busy seething myself to care. (c)Q:As I wasn’t myself a noble hero with a limitless store of mana and all the sense of an unvarnished deck chair, I went down slowly and cautiously. (c)The mana-building is hilarious:Q:was I starting to feel evil? Yes, now I was worrying I’d be turned to the dark side by too much crochet. (c)Existential much?Q:What right did I have to take that for myself, eight times and counting? Why did I deserve to live more than them?But I had an answer now: I hadn’t pulled malia even with a knife in my gut, and I’d gone after a maw-mouth to save half the freshmen instead of running away, and meanwhile Magnus had tried to murder me because Orion liked me, and Todd had destroyed Mika because he was scared, and because I had that answer, I couldn’t help thinking actually I did deserve to live more than them. And I know nobody gets to live or not live because they deserve it, deserving doesn’t count for a thing, but the point was, I now felt deep in my heart that I was in fact a better human being than Magnus or Todd, and hooray, all the prizes for me, but that wasn’t helpful when what I actually needed was reasons why I shouldn’t just wipe them out of existence. (c)Anger management:Q:I know how to stop being angry. I’ve been taught any number of ways to manage anger, and they really work. What she’s never been able to teach me is how to want to manage it. So I go on seething and raging and knowing the whole time that it’s my own fault, because I do know how to stop. (c)Q: “Why are you being this nice?” he said. “Are you mad at me for something?” (c)Q:We went in for a round of staring around at each other with equal degrees of what sort of moron are you expressions, and then I said, “Does that ever actually work for you?” (c)Q:I know you’re just waiting for us to put your statue up, but that’s no reason to carry on like a slab of solid rock.” (c)Another rocking point is how the Scholomance is basically another MC to follow. The School's a living breathing thing with a preference for good vs bad balance and a hunger for particular things. How's that for character dev? Incredible!If there ever was a competition of most unusual characters, this school would rock the heck out of it.Uncushy settings:Q:I stood up and hurled the latest crumbling ancient scroll back into the impenetrable dark on the other side of my desk (c) What's about her desk?Q:You’d think that any smell would clear out quickly, since one whole wall of the room is open to the scenic view of a mystical void of darkness, so delightfully like living in a spaceship aimed directly into a black hole, but you’d be wrong. (c)Now, that's digs to dream of. Maybe as in having nightmares.I can't decide whether living in such a place would be an agoraphobic experience, claustrophobic or plain delightful? Wouldn't it be like living on a spaceship of sorts? A crazy one but still?
3578404120	This Review ✍️ Blog 📖 Twitter 🐦 Instagram 📷Actual Rating: 2.5 starsI just went through some reviews before starting this reviews and I am seeing a lot of “I am a big Naomi Novik fan but this was not for me/ DNFed/ not as good as her other books”. Personally, I preferred this over Uprooted and Spinning Silver but I still am giving it 2.5 stars. The book has been the center of a recent drama while I was reading it this week and I will touch upon that in this review a bit.My biggest problem with Novik’s novel is the writing, I just think her prose is very over descriptive, boring and suffocating. It needs effort to go through her books which makes reading them more of a chore which means an instant DNF for me these days. This novel had a better writing and I decided to give the author a 3rd chance -Which I never do- because my bookish friends insisted that it sounds good and that her books are fun to read.The book does sound good and it has a very intriguing synopsis but I think we have very mediocre/ weak execution here which I find surprising for an author who has been doing this for years. The book basically revolves around a magical school where students go to study without teachers and learn to protect themselves from all kind of creatures that want to kill them. I am not gonna compare this to HP because not every magical school novel should be automatically compared to HP and because Rowling does not have the copyrights for this kind of stories and there have been magical schools and will always be in stories. But what I am gonna say is that I am a big fan of the school trope and that’s the main reason I decided to give this a chance. This year I have read some great magical school books -not intentionally- including The Name of the Wind, Ink and Bone, Master of Sorrows. I even recently finished Once and Future Witches which does not have a magical school but has plenty of magic. This was very meh compared to that for many reasons including characterization, plot, and world-building as I am explaining next. “You know, it’s almost impressive,” he said after a moment, sounding less wobbly. “You’re nearly dead and you’re still the rudest person I’ve ever met. You’re welcome again, by the way.” Our main character Galadriel or El (I am gonna use El in the rest of this review) is a very unlikable character and I have always said that some people are rude and unlikable in real life so I can expect to see them in stories. The problem with El is that she insists on being rude and unlikable throughout the story, characters deserve to grow hrough the story and maybe if she was improving then that would have redeemed her as slightly more likable but hell no, she thinks she is so special and she keeps talking about her super dark powers but it is all talk. And speaking of talking, I think this books suffer from telling rather than showing and this is not exclusive to the characters but also world-building. The rest of the characters are flat too so I know I will have forgotten everyone comes next weekend. The controversy surrounding the book was mostly about the characters and how the represnetation is bad and hurtful for some readers. I think people exaggerated and I did not feel much about the characters anyway because as I said above they were flat. This is very subjective and I am someone who hardly is offended by this kind of things so I can’t say that I found it offending. At the same time, different readers process books differenlty and to each their own, if you think this is racist/ has microaggressions or is not for youu then please saty away from it. “Or if you’re me, you can suck the life force out of a dozen kids and then incinerate half the school with you inside it. So helpful!” Here is El telling us about how powerful she is again. Yet the whole time I was reading this, I wish that I felt that. Whenever she was in trouble, she would get confused and nervous, cast a spell that apparently does nothing at first and then the monster suddenly dies! This telling extends to the spells which is supposed to be the exciting part of the book, but the whole professor-less thing did not work out very well because classes and the teacher-student dynamic are very important in this type of stories and it was absent here. I still don’t understand what is the point of the school then and although it was explained a couple of times in the story, I was not convinced. Here is an explanation of a spell and I don’t know why a one or two words incantation is not enough these days! “Clarita’s shield spell was fundamentally designed to be cast by multiple people, to cover a group. It wove between English and Spanish, and read almost like a song, or a play with different roles for each caster: there were lines and verses that we could cast either solo or together, chaining them together one after another, so we could all take a breather now and then, and the lines weren’t even nailed down-” At the beginning I think the book had potential but the more I read, the more problems I could spot and the less excited I was. At the end I was reading and skimming because I reached the place where I just wanted to finish. The book did end up in a cliffhanger and I want to know what happens but I think I will ask one of my friends to spoil it for me because I won’t be continuing this series unfortunately.Summary: A story with a good potential but bad execution. The characters were flat, there was a lot of telling rather than showing and I kind of lost interest toward the end of the book. If you are a Novik fan then definitely read this but if you are not like me, then this won’t change much.You can get more books from Book Depository
3888946074	1.5 starsWow okay, I did not enjoy this. There were too many info dumps and I wasn’t a fan of the “rambling” and textbook-like writing style. It took me right out of the story.Being inside El’s head was grating because she would constantly berate Orion and the things around her. Her internal thoughts, however, were witty and entertaining - so I give her that.Another reason why I did not like this was that the plot had no sense of direction and I was so bored throughout. Initially, I was totally down for the premise. It was interesting and new. I mean, who doesn’t want to read about a deadly school filled with monsters set out to kill you? Unfortunately, the execution fell flat. Nothing really happens until the last 20% and by then, I had already given up trying to engage with the book.In conclusion:
3450424888	Omg i had so much fun reading this! I mean, of course i did. it’s dark academia. I enjoyed this world so much. This book in particular did have a lot of world building but i didn’t mind because there were so many things i found cool. For Example the moving stairs you couldn’t be on after classes because you don’t know where you’ll end up or the fact that you can’t be in your room after curfew. Also, these kids were crazy as hell and literally was trying to kill the main character El. I know a lot of people don’t like El but i personally loved her. I feel like i really understand her and maybe that’s because i see myself in her? She’s so stubborn and i love the fact that she was a boss bitch. She was so smart and came up with things i probably would’ve never thought of. I really loved the romance as well. Orion is such an interesting character and the fact that he was always saving El was so funny to me. Their romance kind of gave off grumpy x sunshine vibes. El being the grumpy and Orion being the sunshine. He was such a golden boy but the fact that they understood each other and related to each other was so sweet. I also really enjoyed the writing. I need to check out some of Novik’s other books because the writing in this one was so amazing. This book was so great and i honestly can’t wait until the next book. Especially after that ending? i need the second book like yesterday!
3180286838	$1.99 Kindle sale, August 29, 2021. I was a bit on the fence with this first book, but I have to say that I really loved the second one, so overall this fantasy series gets a strong thumbs up from me, so far.Review first posted on FantasyLiterature.com:The Scholomance: It’s kind of like a semi-sentient Hogwarts with extra teeth (actually, more like a mouth bristling with razor-sharp fangs), no teachers, really brutal cliques, and an out-of-control infestation of all sorts of magical monsters (called maleficers or “mals”), large and small, that want nothing more than to eat the students. Many years ago a group of wizards banded together to build the Scholomance to give their children a better chance at surviving adolescence. The Scholomance blocks out most of mals, but enough manage to slip in that the body count at the Scholomance is alarmingly high … it’s just better than if the students weren’t at the school.The worst problem is that the only exit from the school is through a hall where the largest infestation of mals exists, a whole menagerie of monsters lying in wait to eat the majority of graduating seniors. Years ago, Galadriel’s own father died during the graduating seniors’ mass exist from the school, protecting his girlfriend, who was pregnant with El at the time. Now El is at the Scholomance herself, a third-year student doing her best to stay alive. She’s a loner, angry and resentful of everyone around her — especially Orion Lake, a privileged and popular student whose life mission seems to be protecting other students from being killed by mals. El just wants Orion to leave her alone; his constant white knighting is making her look incompetent to other students, decreasing her chances of being able to join one of the better alliances of students, who protect each other during the graduation exit when they’re running the gauntlet of mals.El is actually a superior magician, but no one else at the Scholomance knows it; she’s been hiding her talent, hoping to dazzle her classmates into asking her to join an alliance, but also because El’s particular magical affinity is for murder and mass destruction. When Orion stubbornly refuses to leave El alone, she decides to pretend to be his girlfriend in order to leverage his popularity to get a good alliance offer. The problem is, El is so brimming with anger and resentment that she can’t resist making rude comments to all of her classmates that she’s supposed to be schmoozing up to.I’m a big Naomi Novik fan after reading Uprooted and especially Spinning Silver, but I was dubious about A Deadly Education for the first several chapters. There’s a lot of initial info-dumping to absorb here, and El, who narrates this story, is a hard main character to warm up to. She’s defined chiefly by her snark, her anger, and her unwanted affinity for mass destruction spells. She also is frequently her own worst enemy, driving others away when it would clearly benefit her — and wouldn’t really be all that difficult — to just play nice. Main characters who are prickly and rude to others and who shoot themselves in the foot with their own decisions are a hard type for me to enjoy. (I like the secret mastermind type characters far better.)But eventually it occurred to me how brilliant Novik is to have created a character whose natural talent is mass murder and destruction, but to have that offset by the way her sweet, open-hearted white witch mother raised her. These two opposing factors, nature vs. nurture, create a major tension within El’s character, making her an unusually interesting person to me as I got more into the book, and by the end I was fully on board with her character. Orion isn’t just a hero; he has his own issues, and the friendship (and perhaps more) between him and El has a tough road to travel.While the Scholomance has a worldwide, highly diverse student body, the handling of this diversity is on the shallower end of the pool. I didn’t really get much of a feel for their different cultures, including El’s half-Indian heritage. Other than that, though, there are an abundance of marvelous details in the worldbuilding. El’s focus on language and linguistics plays a major role in the way her magical talents develop, and there are magical drawbacks to learning new languages as well as benefits. The benefits of wealth and social status are shown very clearly in who thrives in the Scholomance, or even just survives. The metaphor for our own society isn’t subtle, but it does play out in a realistic way.A Deadly Education is an intriguing twist on the magic school genre and a solid beginning for THE SCHOLOMANCE trilogy. I’m excited for when the next book, The Last Graduate, comes out in 2021.Initial comments: I'm sold! After Uprooted and especially Spinning Silver, I'll read pretty much anything by Naomi Novik.
3449345528	Note: I received a free copy of A Deadly Education by Naomi Novik in exchange for my honest review.I’m surprised by how much I liked this book. It has a very dark Hogwarts type feel, but with way more monsters and death. 🙃 I enjoyed the hate/love relationships between El and well... pretty much everyone. 😜 And sweet Orion is the golden retriever who you just have to love ❤️ I’ll be looking forward to reading that sequel! Update: I’m having dreams about this world and am still thinking about it... I had to come back and update my review and add a star! Cause any book that stays in my head like this, deserves the coveted five star! ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Thank you @goodreads @naominovik and @randomhouse #goodreadsgiveaway
3180382900	3.75 stars Before I outline my thoughts on this book, if you’ve missed it, please read some reviews from BIPOC reviewers in response to some of the missteps about race in this book. I read reviews from both sides before deciding to proceed with reading it myself as planned. My review will not speak on any of the accusations against this book, as it is not my place to say whether something is harmful to a marginalized group that I am not a part of. Based on what I read from reviewers, the missteps in this book seem to be largely subjective as there is a context to the world building for a lot of lines that can appear problematic when taken out of context (which is true of nearly any piece of media). Please read reviews, as there are many very detailed ones outlining each piece of the discussion, and decide how you wish to proceed. Here are two very detailed reviews from both sides but there are many more out there:https://nusantaranaga.wordpress.com/2...https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...This is our House Salt Book Club pick for the month so we will be discussing not only the book but all the controversy around it on my channel on Halloween! Now… onto the actual review: This book takes place in a magical school that is actively trying to kill its students. I say school but it’s more like a 4 year independent-study program as there are no teachers and the school is CHAOTIC. The school has monsters of all kinds of varieties (monsters that live in the bathroom and prevent the students from being able to safely shower, things that creep under their doors at night so they have to set magical trip wires, monsters that hide in their food, and any other variety of ways to be killed suddenly). Our main character is an outcast who begrudgingly ends up spending more time around the “school hero” who has managed to save her life numerous times, and we follow her during Junior year.The best part of the book really is the world building. It’s incredibly atmospheric with all the monsters, the school set in a literal magical void, and with the way the school operates. You as a reader truly get a sense of how stressful it would be. This is also one of those magic systems (similar to Name of the Wind) where magic is actually pretty difficult and you get a feeling about how hard it is to learn and survive. As far as the characters, it did take some time for me to warm up to them. El did grow on me pretty quickly as a grumpy protagonist, but as she is an outsider for most of the book, we don’t get a sense of some of the other characters personality wise until almost the end of this first book. But what we have seen so far is promising, especially as far as friendship dynamics go, so I am intrigued for what this set up. Speaking of set up, this is largely a foundational book as most books in fantasy series are. This is mostly an introduction to the setting and how magic works, with some character backgrounds and dynamics that will obviously be built on throughout the series. It’s a quick and engaging read, as you are left constantly wondering how the school is going to try to kill them next. I will likely continue on with this series.
5698597157	EDIT: Adding on to some of the criticisms that the book has faced. I was born in Australia, and am part of the South Asian diaspora. I did not find this book racist in the sense that El is biracial and isn't connected to her paternal side in India. There are people, yep, like myself, who experience similar to El and we should be mindful not to invalidate that. However, I do acknowledge that there is a harmful comment on dreadlocks, which Naomi Novik has humbly apologised for.-------4.5 stars. I did not want to put this book down! I get the comparisons to Hogwarts without teachers, but the Scholomance is an extra labrinthine, sinister magical school that serves as both a haven and a death trap for young wizards filled with demon monster things called mals/maleficaria who feast on “mana” (magic power) and as a result, the students face 50/50 odds of graduating or dying. Surviving the Scholomance is a clever parallel to real life--to survive and thrive, it’s not just about skill, it’s about social status, wealth and privilege, and mana is the currency. We see that contrast in the two main characters: - Galadriel/El (MC narrator), who lives in a yurt in the woods and has to work really hard to build mana/magic, and has no friends except her mother, and - Orion Lake, a kid from a prestigious enclave who is put on a pedestal and has access to immense amounts of ‘mana’/magic.I really enjoyed the main character Galadriel/El’s narration. I know she’s not for everyone, and I understand why. She’s snarky, sarcastic, dark-humoured, cynical and morally ambiguous, and her great-grandmother prophesised that she will “bring death and destruction to all the enclaves in the world” if she wasn’t stopped, probably because she’s a vessel of immense power with an affinity for mass destruction. But at her core, she really doesn't want to hurt anyone despite her struggles with isolation, fear, and the moral implications of her power.Orion Lake, on the other hand, doesn’t have any real friends either for completely different reasons. He is treated as a hero and saviour and put on a pedestal. That’s because he is a hero, with an affinity for combat magic and heroism. Still, this means that people kinda worship the ground he walks on, which lends itself to isolation, especially when you're just an awkward kid who hates the limelight. It comes as a refreshing surprise when El doesn’t fawn over him and even does her best to insult and push him away.I adored how diverse and cultural this book was. If you love culture and languages, you’ll appreciate this book big time. However, there is a LOT of info dumping in this book. I admit, I found some of it quite dense to get through. It’s an artistic choice to build a really intricate, detailed world, which might not be everyone's cup of tea.Still, personally, that didn't prevent me from being completely sucked into the Scholomance, and I can’t wait to devour the next one! I’ve also seen this is getting made into a movie, so I really hope they do the book justice.My heartfelt thanks to NetGalley, Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine, Del Rey and author Naomi Novik for the opportunity to read this work in exchange for an honest review.1. A Deadly Education ★★★★★2. The Last Graduate ★★★★★3. The Golden Enclaves ★★★★☆--------------------Wrote more on A Deadly Education here.
3578542922	Yesterday, I started writing this book's review:I enjoyed this book more than I expected. I have read Uprooted and loved it (back when it was still cool to like this book), I found Spinning Silver okay and dnf the first Temeraire book, in fact, it was my only dnf this year (I was so bored but I loved the dragon). So I thought maybe my taste changed across the years and Naomi’s books aren’t for me anymore. Glad I was wrong. *throws it in the bin*I originally gave this book 4 stars. I did not write a review right away because I knew Naomi received lots of criticism claiming she was being racist in this book. I wanted to review people’s notes to be able to judge for myself because sometimes -let’s face it, the black witch- reviews are partially unfair. But then I read this now (somehow while reading the book I skipped this sentence was probably distracted or so) “Predictably, an Arabic worksheet appeared on my desk the instant I sat down that morning. There wasn’t a single word of English on it; the school didn’t even give me a dictionary. And judging by the cheery cartoonish illustrations next to the lines—most notably a man in a car about to mow down a couple of hapless pedestrians—I had the strong suspicion that it was modern Arabic, too. I should’ve got a book on Classical Arabic out of the library before going to class.”To give some context, El, the heroine, was studying the Arabic language for the first time. She has a dark affinity to magic so the school is always showing her dark and violent spells. The fact that the other Arab character, Ibrahim, is annoying af and follows the American Orion like a puppy didn't help either. If the Middle Eastern Arabs were portrayed in a positive way (anything and no, having a powerful enclave doesn't count), it would've been fine with. We were not. Her apology on twitter -while better than nothing- is not enough.God, I’m so done. I’m so so so fed up with people claiming Arabic speakers are terrorists. We lived in fucking fear from Al Qaeda and ISIS. WHO BTW HAD RECRUITS FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD INCLUDING UK AUSTRALIA CANADA. AND HEY? LET'S NOT START TALKING ABOUT WHO FINANCED THEM IN THE FIRST PLACE. You don't actually think they bought all these arms from their money, right? right. So yeah I’m feeling quite mad right now. Someone said bismillah during one of the videos of the Beirut blast and western people started thinking it was a terrorist attack while the guy simply meant in God’s name (this expression basically means omg). Please educate yourselves. We are disgusted by those terrorists who killed more of us, people living in the Middle East, than abroad. I wanted to praise this book. I was ready to and was even thinking of defending Naomi (the irony), it was fun although it had one of the worst info dump I’ve read in a very long time. But I had enjoyed reading it, I liked the characters. I wanted to read the next book ASAP. It also ended on a high note, not a cliffhanger but enough to want me to read the sequel. I don’t know what to think now. I’m very heartbroken. One would think by now I should be used to western views of us, those living in the Middle East. We speak Arabic so we must be terrorists. They know shit about us. But no, they want to be smart about it. Unacceptable really.If you don't agree with me please read the comments, if you still don't agree but going to repeat something that was already brought up, I won't reply.
3239460530	dark academia + magic + monsters = a deadly education Naomi Novik takes the overdone concept of a magic school and refreshes it with darkness, a diverse cast and unique world building. If you are looking for a book to serve all the Slytherin vibes- complete with an unlikeable mc and twisting political alliances- look no further. The school in a deadly education is truly what the title suggests- deadly. When there are monsters lurking around every corner, you need to be 10 steps ahead at all times. How are you going to get to breakfast? Who are you going to sit with? Navigating the complicated social hierarchy of high school suddenly becomes a matter of literal life or death. As a result, there is a vague undercurrent of anxiety and foreboding through the whole book, which both unsettled me and forced me to keep reading. My favourite part of this book was undoubtably the world building. A common complaint I have heard is of the often unnecessary info-dumps. I didn't mind them, because the world Novik has created is so intricate and calculated that I loved learning more about it. I also didn't mind because I liked the voice of our main character with her sarcasm and dry humour. If you enjoyed the footnotes in Nevernight, I think you have a greater chance of liking them, and probably vice-versa. However, while I liked learning about the world and the concepts explored, I didn't feel that spark that makes me invested in the story. I was overall left feeling lukewarm about the characters, plot and writing. There was nothing done wrong per se, but nothing I felt to be outstanding either. I also felt it to be a little juvenile at times. I am not sure if it is the marketing or my own misplaced expectations, but I thought this would fall more on the adult fantasy side. Instead, the inner monologues felt almost silly at times. For a school full of students whose only options are to graduate or die, I felt like they weren't as mature as I would expect and instead were overly fixated on frivolous and petty ideas. That's not necessarily a bad thing, just a side effect of it being a slightly different age range than I had hoped. I am pretty sure that this issue won't be present in Spinning Silver or Uprooted, both adult as far as I am aware, so now I am even more excited to try them!I have a feeling that this will be a very divisive and polarising book, but I found myself falling towards the middle in terms of enjoyment. I definitely had more positive feelings than otherwise, and so I am looking forward to seeing how the story progresses in the rest of the series. I would hesitantly recommend it, but only to specific people as I can definitely see how this wouldn't work for some. If you have read this, I would be really interested to see what you thought of it! ★★★☆☆.5 starsThank you to Random House UK for this ARC!Release Date: 29 September 2020
3553331086	Well, one of my most highly anticipated 2020 releases is officially now my most disappointing read of the year so far *cue sad violin music* This book had so much potential and yet it missed every mark for me. The story itself could have been something really great but, for me, it was let down in all aspects by the writing and execution. The characters all fell flat and despite a large cast, the MC was the only character with any defining characteristics. The relationships were subpar and pretty much non-existent and whilst the world building and magic system were interesting, they both felt pretty lacklustre. However, what let it down the most for me was the writing itself. The sentence structure and grammar throughout just felt... off? I don’t know how else to describe it. It felt messy and as though it was yet to go through an editor. This may totally be on me but I didn’t get on with it at all unfortunately.Overall, whilst I have a feeling I may be in the minority for this (maybe myself and novik’s writing style don’t mix and that’s okay?) I sadly found this book to be dull and disappointing (it kills me to say this.) I was so close to DNF’ing almost every time I picked it up but because I’d been so looking forward to it, I was desperate to like it and unable to give up on it changing my mind. That being said, I’m sure this is going to be a fabulous reading experience for many people but it very much wasn’t for me unfortunately.
3180544526	Usually when I rate a book 3 stars it's either because I liked it but didn't think it was anything special, or I'm super ambivalent about it. Neither of these are the case for A Deadly Education.I adored and despised this book in equal measure.I loved the character of El. She's snarky, defensive and downright hostile and I swear I've never related to a character more. The way she is just so done with The Scholomance and all of the obstacles it throws in her path were hilarious to read.Orion is the floppy eared, dumb af puppy you can't help but love, and I also enjoyed the supporting cast in this book.The writing came through at points, making me laugh out loud "Reader, I ran the fuck away." being one of my favourite quotes. I hated the endless amounts of exposition. They were distracting and unnecessarily complex. While I love me some world-building and don't mind an info dump, I found the frequency at which random chunks of information was given to the reader to be very distracting, and so often that I wasn't actually getting the points Naomi Novik was trying to make as it was all just a bit too much. The lengthy nature of these info dumps often meant that I was distracted from the story and couldn't remember what was going on by the time we actually got back to the main narrative. They were also told in a conversational manner, like El was halting the story to impart information to the reader and as a personal preference, I'm not a big fan of that kind of storytelling.That being said, this book ended on a massive "Oh Shit" moment so I can't wait to continue the series.
3282858888	Yes, I am aware of the controversy surrounding parts of this book. Novik apologized with great feeling for her mistakes, so I decided to read this, and I am so, so happy I did. This female lead is one of my all-time favorites. Her grumpiness is everything. THAT SAID...The dreadlock paragraph is atrocious and definitely needed to be addressed and I'm glad it's being fixed in later editions. As for the languages as magic and some of the other issues some readers had, I did read a lot of reviews after finishing this, from reviewers who know much more about these topics than myself - native speakers of said languages, people who live in the countries in question or are of those cultures or are historians - and while there were several who had problems with some of the portrayals, many others didn't. I guess what I'm trying to say is read the book or don't based on your own research. Also, I don't know who needs to hear this, but it's okay to like problematic fiction, and authors, and tropes, etc. Does that mean that you should rush out and tell the world to read and love it like you did? Probably not, but if you yourself loved it, I don't see the problem as long as you look at it with eyes wide open and recognize and address its problematic elements when speaking about it.
3564518943	There's some call to name this the slightly more hardcore magic successor of Harry Potter, but I personally like to think of it as an overpowered destruction-magic teen just trying to deny her heritage while going to school in a void-enhanced pocket universe Hogwarts that doesn't mind killing a vast portion of its students for the sake of keeping them in line.Oh, and there aren't any teachers. Spells are learned directly from the void and the intelligent library and clans.For me, I fell HARD into this tale and got snappy with the people in my life when they wanted me to pay attention to them when I really wanted to focus on THIS TALE.I loved it. It was wild, very YA, but also all those no-holds-barred tropes that make me tumble in love. You know, like saying screw all the cliques, going total nonconformist, feeling that vast loneliness, and yet -- somehow -- making really good friends. Old stuff, but I honestly fell entirely under its spell. No icky stuff. Just pure-fun. I was reminded a bit of a mix between Hogwarts and Seanan McGuire's Wayward Children in a really good way.And now I honestly can't wait for the next book in the series.
3619607713	DNF at 40%Did I know that reading this right after Vita Nostra was a mistake?Yes. But sometimes you got to succumb to the hype and pick up the hot new release that everyone is talking about.Unfortunately, A Deadly Education turned out to be a rather painful reading experience for me. I very rarely do not finish books, but this one was genuinely boring me to tears. I suspect that, had it been written by anyone other than Naomi Novik (a bestselling, award-winning author with a large fanbase), no major publisher would have put it out without a few additional rounds of editing. This book is plagued by so many glaring structural, tonal, and conceptual problems that I’m truly baffled by the raving reviews it has received. Here’s a quick breakdown of the main issues I found:1. Is this Harry Potter fanfiction?The answer is, of course, yes. It’s no secret that Scholomance is based on a Draco/Harry fic by the same name that Novik posted on her AO3 account a few years back. This isn’t the first time this author has filed the serial numbers off of her fanfic, either; her Temeraire saga famously started off as a Master and Commander spin off.I’m not here to pass judgement on the legitimacy of this practice; however, I think there’s something to be said about an author who built herself an audience writing gay fanfiction, only to consistently straightwash it before publication.The real problem, though, is how painfully derivative this book feels. We have a bunch of teenagers trying to survive a dangerous magic school in England, a chosen one worshiped by the entire student body, an evil-but-not-really love interest who everyone believes is a dark magician, half-bloods, muggles... sorry, I meant mundanes.In general, I had an overwhelming sense of reading recycled material. This felt like jumping back in time to the mid-2000s, when every fantasy author was coming up with their own thinly veiled version of Hogwarts.2. Exposition over plot.I saw a reviewer say that this book reminded them of a furniture assembly manual, and I’ll have to agree. The already threadbare plot is bogged down by endless exposition and tedious monologues where El lectures the reader on every world building detail.The whole thing reads like an AU fanfiction written by someone who was so proud of their world that they treated every other aspect of the story like an afterthought. Fanfic readers, of course, are generally okay with a lackluster plot if it means they get to see more of their favorite characters; I, on the other hand, couldn't care less about El and Orion, and Novik does very little to change my mind. They’re tropey, one-note protagonists with nothing deep or unique about them.3. Why is this sold as adult?As someone who often complains about female authors being shelved as young adult even when they write adult fiction, I hate to say what I’m about to say, but: A Deadly Education should have been YA. This is a very standard, paint-by-numbers fantasy that ticks all the category’s boxes: teenage protagonist, high school setting, quirky and “relatable” first person narrator, central romance. For real, the characters spend entire pages discussing cafeteria seating arrangements and who’s dating who in the school.Given how heavily the marketing campaign leaned on the dark academia aspect of the book, I went in expecting something along the lines of Ninth House or Vita Nostra; instead, what I got was closer to Shadowhunters by way of Rainbow Rowell.Perhaps the most glaringly juvenile element is the first-person, present-tense narration that constantly breaks the fourth wall to address the reader. Maybe it’s me, but this took me completely out of the story and broke my suspension of disbelief. If we’re supposed to experience the events of the book at the same time as El, why does she sound like she’s telling the story to an audience? Who is she talking to?4. Real-world cultures aren’t fantasy.Did you know that Scholomance is actually a black magic school in Romanian folklore? Or that mana is a supernatural force in traditional Polynesian religion? Yeah, neither did I. Novik picks and chooses different elements from non-Western cultures, incorporating them into her world without referencing their original context; but treating real-world cultures like fantasy tropes can have some unfortunate implications, particularly when things like religion and language are involved. This is especially true when it comes to the book’s magic system. We’re told right off the bat that the two most powerful languages in this world are English and Mandarin; children are encouraged to learn them from a young age, and El is annoyed that her mother insisted on teaching her Marathi (her father’s native tongue) rather than Hindi or Mandarin. The book constantly pushes the idea that minority languages are inherently less valuable than majority ones, without ever attempting to unpack the reasons why those languages became so widely spoken in the first place. No consideration is given to the colonialist and imperialist roots of language oppression; in Novik’s universe, real-world discrimination simply doesn’t exist. Why, then, set the story in modern day England instead of a secondary world? I can’t wrap my head around this.
3415886975	[4.5/5 stars] I wasn’t sure about A Deadly Education at first, but it soon shaped itself into one of my top reads of 2020.I loved the setting (Scholomance – the place gifted teenagers go to learn how to survive against magic-seeking monsters). Of all the magical schools I’ve read about (pretty much everything I can get my hands on… it’s an auto-add subject), this is one of the most unique. There are no teachers. And really there are no rules. But the stakes are deadly, which is the only way I think a place like this works. Teens need the ultimate incentive to do well in school and make good connections. If they don’t, they die. Even the ones who work hard and play it right sometimes die. Novik, you have my full attention. And not only because I love learning about magical stuff. It provided all the school setting feels with a dystopian high-stakes attitude. Definitely a unique combination.The source of my hesitation was the main character. She came across incredibly unlikable from the start with this “poor me” attitude that frankly seemed to me to be the biggest cause of her problems. Sure, she had a lot of obstacles to overcome, but I saw her as mostly in her own way and those obstacles a minor secondary issue. That said, the more I read the more I realized I actually liked reading about an atypical heroine. Her choices were interesting and her motives were unusual. I wouldn’t call her an anti-hero, per se, but maybe one in training. It’s also incredibly nice to read about flawed characters because, whether I like them or not, I always find them relatable to one degree or another. This gifted, ornery, always exasperated girl won me over, and I now find myself eager to read what she’ll do next – the unexpected is exciting!And finally, a book with a school setting that’s not riddled with YA angst.Oh, sure, the main character is put-upon and angsty, but it’s in a much different vein than the troppy YA stuff I’m referring to. For starters, the POV isn’t consumed by a love interest, and so was able to focus on the many other interesting problems prevalent throughout the book. The change of pace was wonderful. I realize this was not written for the YA market, so obviously it’s bound to be different. But it’s hard to find a magic school setting with a teenaged female character in anything other than that market (recs welcome). I hope after this, we’ll see a few more.I also came to really appreciate the writing style. Incredibly conversational, it was infused with countless strategic tirades of information. It had such a strong voice, the plethora of info dumps didn’t bother me even though I think my critiquing radar should’ve been beeping off the charts. I’ve never been quite as bothered by info dumps as other readers. In fact, I had to practice recognizing them so I could avoid them in my own writing. For me it has always been more an issue of subject matter – if I’m interested in learning about whatever is being dumped, bring it on. There were a lot of explanation passages in this book – some of them mayhaps more long-winded than they needed to be – but most of them fit within the voice of the POV and served to reveal character, as her opinions overshadowed everything she was sharing. I didn’t mind it, but I can see how others might.Recommendations: a huge win for the year! It took a few chapters to get going, but the setting, writing style, and ornery main character eventually won me over. It managed to incorporate all the things I love about magic school stories without the overdone tropes. Novik brought a unique spin to the idea, and I’m hopeful others will love it as much as I did. :)Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.comOther books you might like:
5420885743	The Scholomance is more like the macabre version of Hogwarts, as there are no teachers, no friends, no chance of leaving (not until you graduate) and which is full of hungry monsters (mals) that will do anything possible to feed themselves on students (especially the weak ones, or losers).Most students form alliances to have better survival chances, but Galadriel (El) Higgins, well, she really seems not interested in having any, but...should that be enough (and her dark powers) for her to make it to graduation? Why is she more like a loner and avoids (as much as possible) interaction with others? That's a question that could only be answered by getting immersed into Naomi Novik's trilogy.What is true is that any action happening at the Scholomance may have its rewards or its consequences and that one's effort can never be compared to that of working collectively. In any case, beware of monsters as they can be really deceiving.I really enjoyed this work of fiction and look forward to reading the next installment in the series.
3640025483	Gah this book was so interesting and thoroughly enjoyed it but soooo much info dumping.
3568115033	Thank you to the publisher for providing me with a copy of this book.Set in a school that is quite literally a death trap, this book proved to be a super interesting concept where teenagers deal with not just your standard levels of social hierarchy, but the most intense kind, with monsters and magic thrown in the mix. Of course, our main character seems to be a siphon for destruction, and mere survival is a challenge of restraint for her. Add in the difficulties of friendships and schoolwork, and you have yourself a fun read about the most chaotic teenage life.As dark as this book sounds with all its claims of monsters and destruction, it is the word "fun" I keep coming back to. This book is categorised as adult here in the UK, which honestly baffles me a tad. If you take out the few instances of swearing, this book really does read on the younger side of Young Adult/Teen fiction. Which isn't a criticism in itself - just something to note. That being said, I really did struggle with imagining these characters because their voices just didn't align smoothly. One minute our main character would be hurling rude insults around, the next, she would say something that immediately had the voice of a 14 year old. It was slightly jarring, and I had to keep reminding myself what year of school she was in just to be able to conjure up an image of her in my head.It's worth noting too that this is entirely different to Naomi Novik's usual writing style. Novik attempts a teenage, slightly angsty "I-don't-care-about-anything" voice on our main character, throwing around lots of "Etcetera etceteras" to show just how much she didn't care to explain. I have to admit, I didn't love it. I'm much more of a fan of Novik's adult folkloric fantasy. That being said, it was engaging to read and still had the charm I expected from Novik. Despite to caring all too much for the characters, I had my moments of emotion when reading the backstory scenes, or when everything about our main characters defensive attitude suddenly made sense. It takes a lot, to invoke that kind of emotion and understanding in a reader, and yet Novik manages it every time.The world building - or rather, school building - was by far the most intriguing part of the book. Granted, we were given quite the disjointed info-dump at the beginning about how it worked, but it doesn't take too long to just go along with it. The school was another character in and of itself, almost a sentient being that would adapt to whatever was happening in the book. Not only that, but the sense of danger surrounding every corner of this book...oof did I feel the intensity. I didn't even begin to fathom the level of alertness needed to survive in this school until Naomi Novik laid it all out on a plate to me. Assessing which table to sit at while eating lunch, how to shower, walking down corridors - even deadlines somehow became more scary. Novik really did think everything through, and it was a wonder to read.That being said, this did end up being a middling book for me. I love the concept, the world, the social systems and magic. But the writing was just...not for me. I had too many niggling issues with the book to be able to fully sink into the story. Which is such a shame! I had high expectations going into this one, after my love for Uprooted. Still, it was a fun one to read and give a go, and I'm more than eager to give the rest of her books a read if I haven't already.
7915095196	3.75 ⭐️ I loved her humor, the magic and academic nature of this book, definitely reading the next in the series!
4226535850	'I decided that Orion needed to die after the second time he saved my life.' - A Deadly Education takes off with one of the most riveting opening sentences in fantasy!Naomi Novik weaves a refreshing take on the magic boarding school trope with masterful narrative pacing, unforgettable characters and intricate world-building. What I enjoyed most is the tone of the book, set by the smart and impertinent lead El and her many sarcastic inner musings. The complementary character arcs of El and Orion, of whom you find out a lot in just the first few opening words, drive the story forward and are made a lot more distinctive by their personalities. The characters, including many secondary ones, are quite well-formed and are made relatable teenagers even though they face extraordinary unrelatable circumstances. El manages to retain her wit and sass even while fighting her destiny of becoming a dark goddess of death and destruction!The novel is set in the Scholomance, a magic boarding school with a sort of AI giving personalized course structures for each student; and they learn by surviving not only exams but also the aforementioned extraordinary circumstances such as frequent attacks by mals /monsters. The layered world-building does require some exposition but it's packed in well along with the action, keeping the story moving forward at a good pace. More importantly, this book is enjoyable and provides a good foundation for the next books in the series.Overall, the book has great diversity and quite distinct characters. It was heartening to see Naomi Novik acknowledge and apologize for racially insensitive comments on dreadlocks. And the series deserves some extra points for trying to create a matter-of-fact cosmopolitan environment, including all the politics.🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Thanks to NetGalley and the Random House Publishing group for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review.[One star for the premise and the whole book; One star for the characters; One star for the writing; One star for the story; One star for the world-building - Five stars in total.]Overall, a definite recommendation to pick up this series! Scholomance #2: The Last Graduate ReviewScholomance #3: The Golden Enclaves Review
4457479911	Tenía las expectativas altas y no las alcanzó.De nada me sirve un universo fascinante y bien construido, si la historia es plana.Comprendo que es el primer libro de una trilogía, y que debe introducirte a estos nuevos personajes, pero aún así. Debe de haber alguna trama más fuerte que la que tuvo. Las únicas páginas que realmente me hicieron sentir que algo chido pasaba, fueron a partir de la página 310… el libro tiene 341.Tal vez más adelante me animé a leer la segunda parte, pero ya será de analizarlo.Pd. Si me siento triste que no me haya gustado :(
3596600056	Kindle Daily Deal: 15Apr22 2.99Galadriel (El for short) is just trying to survive the magical school, full of monsters by the way, that want to kill her. This really is a trial by fire situation and if she could just find an opportunity to show off her power to the other kids, she might be able to make a few alliances to help her stay alive and get out at graduation next year. But golden boy Orion Blake keeps screwing that up by saving her life first.El knew she’d be on her own when she came to the school. There are the outcast kids like her, with no one to help them along the way and the Enclave kids who come in with a power base already set up and allies to rely on. If El is going to survive to graduation and the battle to get out of the school at graduation she is going to need a few allies to help her along the way. Maybe she can use the fact that Orion wants to hang out with her in order to make a few alliances.Things I liked about the story:❶ - The Magical school. The worldbuilding here is great. This isn’t Hogwarts, sure the stairs move around and there are no teachers as the school will provide you with everything you need. It will also make you earn it. For example, the food in the cafeteria, it shows up for different classes at different times but some of it is poisoned and other trays might have monsters in them. Every meal is a challenge and a lesson. Also, there are magic eating creatures infested throughout the school so you will need someone to watch your back just to do things like shower or get supplies out of the supply room.❷ - Galadriel is combative, rude and sometimes shoots herself in her own foot, but I love her. Everyone else is fawning over Orion Blake and she is maybe the only person he met who ever treated him like a person rather than the Chosen One. She has gone through school relatively under the radar, no one knows that she has the capacity for destruction on an epic scale and there might be a little prophecy that she is going to basically destroy the world. But she is trying really hard not to turn evil. “Some sorcerers get an affinity for weather magic, or transformation spells, or fantastic combat magics like dear Orion. I got an affinity for mass destruction.” ❸ - The Plot is really solid. Trying to stay alive and make it to graduation. Working on building the alliances and possibly correcting some of the imbalances in the school. I enjoyed all of that.❹ - The potential for some great friendships and even a little romance down the road is also there. I like that El and Orion are building a friendship that might be more later on. But that part is pretty minor to the overall story. I really like that El is building a little girl squad with a few people she can really trust. I’m hoping to see more of them working together in the next book.But there are a few things that brought my rating down. I love Naomi Novik but she is a little guilty of some info dumping in this story or waxing on in El’s head about different scenarios. There are a couple sections that definitely could have done with some editing to trim that down instead of pages and pages basically saying the same thing that could have been taken care of in a paragraph or two. The chemistry between El and Orion could have been a little better. That said though for this story I think that it made sense that it is sometimes awkward since El is oblivious that Orion likes her and he also can be dense as a stone sometimes.Ultimately this is a really cool idea. I like the concept and I’m excited about the characters. Really looking forward to seeing where the story decides to go next
3572643312	Read if you want:➡️ an entertaining magical high school experience ➡️ with a dystopian feel (as the students have to fight for their survival Hunger Games-style), ➡️ set in mean Hogwarts ➡️ with Shadowhunter-esque demons (mals)➡️ featuring a pretty amazing, sarcastic heroine (no-one-likes-me-because-I-give-off-evil-vibes-hence-I-try-to-alienate-everyone-even-further Galadriel aka El) ➡️ and her beautifully developed friendship with the proverbial hero (I-just want-to-kill-mals-I don’t-want-your-adoration Orion) ➡️ books you have to treat lovingly so they don’t abandon youAmong the things I didn’t exactly love: ➡️ the teenage-girl back and forth between Orion and El at the end – but it is YA so I concede I should have seen it coming (to be fair, there is zero romance in the air before that)➡️ regular humans (mundanes) having to believe in monsters in order for said monsters being able to eat them?? In short, while I enjoyed myself reading this and actually finished it in one sitting, it didn’t stick with me and consume me afterwards as, say, Harry Potter and, to a lesser degree, Hunger Games, and Shadowhunter novels have. (And it is further a possibility that I’ve lately been spoiled by Brandon Sanderson, the literary god/genius, so my expectations are higher.) Still, it is absolutely worth your time if you liked the series mentioned above and I will definitely be reading Scholomance #2.3.75 stars.
3180674342	representation: Half-Indian MC, side characters from all around the world (although apparently the rep is terrible so I would check out some own voices reviews!) [trigger warnings are listed at the bottom of this review and may contain spoilers]DNF pg. 120 ★★I just could not get through this book for the life of me and I'm upsetti spaghetti about it. It started off so strong too and I thought for sure this was going to be one of my new favourite books! But as we got further and further into the book, it was just exposition, exposition and more exposition. It was clear the author had created this awesome world with all of these intricate details, but instead of letting the readers learn these details along the way, for some reason she thought it would be nice to stop mid-scene just to tell us 10,000 facts about the world and it just completely bogged down the story. So unfortunately, what could have been an epic fantastical, deadly school fun time turned into a giant snoozefest that lacked direction because of the constant info-dumping. trigger warnings (first 120 pages only): death of a parent (in the past), violence, murder, stabbing.Thank you to Del Rey for the review copy!
3531548363	Not what I was expecting but good enough.I really liked other Naomi Novik's books - Spinning Silver and Uprooted - so bought this one without single hesitation. But this one turned out to be different and not in a good way.The idea was great: school full of monsters, main character who vows to kill her savior - but eventually I ended up reading endless descriptions of spells and magic enclaves intrigues. Worldbuilding is sure important but it doesn't have to be so boring. And promising dark heroine is just another misunderstood teenage girl who tries her best to be good. Although her sarcasm and dark humor is probably the only thing that made me read till the end.
8063359733	-Young Adult-Fantasy, Dark Academia, Fiction -This is a story about a magical school designed to literally kill you, with rules, dangers, and arcane systems as fascinating as they are horrifying while you fight for your life to get to your graduation date but also starting to add up resources that could help you that day along with sooo many complexities you’re going to face. -The pacing is uneven, because the worldbuilding is AMAZING and flows well, but the action takes a bit to kick in… and when it does, it feels weaker than expected.-The plot has so much potential (the magic, the setting, the consequences, the creativity), but it sometimes feels underused? Or tha might be just me.-It’s original, clever, and atmospheric, don’t get me wrong. It just needed more boom.-The protagonist… look… I get her trauma, but I still didn’t like her.-She’s edgy for the sake of being edgy, and seems annoyed at literally everything. I’m sorry guys. It’s not that I hate her either but just as I said, not a fan.-The other characters are far more interesting.-The side characters barely speak and I feel like they outshine her so hard it’s almost funny, like… come on, even they have more personality.-The romance… oh boy. It was bland, flavorless, like unseasoned chicken. Not needed, not earned, not cute. -It’s a trilogy, but this entry stands on its own decently enough (though I’m not gonna read the other 2).
3162387015	This book is exactly as perfect as you want it to be after devouring Spinning Silver and Uprooted. The worldbuilding is IMPECCABLE, coming on like a freight train and never stopping yet so crisply, vividly done you never get lost. I read it in the early days of quarantine when my brain was alphabet soup and anxiety and it was the only thing that got its hooks into my head. I'm not sure how many more ways I can say, "YOU NEED THIS YOU NEED THIS EVERYONE NEEDS THIS."
3180450380	Star Rating: —> 5 StarsRE-READ #1! 5 Stars AGAINNN! I truly just appreciate the eccentricities of this novel & the dark academia setting with the anti-heroine, and all... just everything about it makes me feel such... wonderment. I absolutely love this book_________________Star Rating: —> 5 StarsGAHHHH THIS WAS EVERYTHING I WAS HOPING FOR & MORE !!!!*screams excitedly, albiet a little annoyingly fangirl-y (#sorrynotsorry 🤷🏼‍♀️)*I just wish it had been longerrrrrr! There are so many books where i’m like GAAAHHHHH they should’ve stopped at 300! But NOT this one! I could’ve read forever about the Scholomance! But what is around only 300 pgs? THIS EFFING BOOK. -___- lol. My GODDDDD THIS WAS PHENOMENALLLLL AND I’M SO HAPPY! RTC___________________I AM POSITIVELY SURE I AM DREAMING! THIS MUST BE A DREAM, RIGHT?!? *swoons*
4166053595	El libro prometía bastante y supero mis expectativas, con una historia llamativa y la construcción de un mundo de fantasía muy bien llevada y desarrollada. La autora nos lleva a un viaje (o de regreso) a una escuela de magia, Escolomancia; internado aislado, que esta conectado con el mundo exterior a través de un pasillo, al cual ingresas con 14 años y sales cuando te gradúas, cuatro años más tarde, ¡si es que sales vivo! (esto es muy relevante). Y con esta premisa ya confiaba que este libro debía gustarme. Al principio, el modo es que está narrada la historia, se me hacia un tanto enredada o quizás monótona; pero al final te terminas acostumbrando al ritmo de la autora, y logras enganchar con lo que intenta transmitirte. En este internado mágico existen: demonios (bastantes, algunos híbridos), magos en formación; pero no hay docentes, es todo autodidacta, esta parte me llamó la atención. Respecto a los personajes, nuestra protagonista es Galadriel (“El”), es una niña solitaria, ya que no le interesa hacer amistades en el colegio, testaruda, antipática, grosera, sin filtros, dice lo que piensa y, generalmente, por no decir siempre, odia a todo el mundo. Admito que me encanta su personalidad, el libro tiene escasos diálogos, pero esos pocos me hacían mucha gracia. Por otro lado, el otro protagonista es Orion Lake, personaje popular, heroico, que trata amablemente a todo el mundo y ayuda sin pedir nada a cambio; es como el contraste de la protagonista. Y por esas cosas del destino, terminan uniéndose en los misterios y desafíos que van apareciendo en la Escolomancia. Si bien el libro no se centra tanto en el romance, ya los quiero ver juntos. En fin, es un libro entretenido, un poco tedioso al inicio, hay que tener eso en cuenta; los personajes son adorables, están bien desarrollados y van evolucionando en el transcurso de las páginas; el mundo está muy bien construido. Lo negativo es que como es introductorio, es relativamente lento; pero el final es de infarto, bueno las últimas líneas, con eso solo quieres continuar con la siguiente entrega.
3323621174	Went into it expecting grimdark fantasy but instead we got grumpy one falls for the sunshine one OTP??! RTC.
3574395511	This was such an unusual book/story - it was fascinating. The school is so unique and terrifying - it's definitely a "Toto, I've a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore." moment (or rather a "Harry, I've a feeling we're not in Hogwarts anymore." And the main protagonists is a survivor - all the students are survivors (until they're not) and also fodder for the school's many monsters.There is just so much going on and so many dangers, the scholomance is a major character in the book. It almost reads like a textbook - with long paragraphs of description. It was one of those books I felt like I was reading for hours, but had only turned a few pages.The main character El is a third year student - one year away from graduation. She has lots to say about the school and surviving to this point. I almost wish that the book started with her induction to the school and the readers could have learned the dangers along with her (instead of being told about it later), but the things she accomplishes in this book would not have been possible when she was brand new to the school so I can see why Novik started the story at this point.I've already ordered Book 2 and am happy to see book 3 has been recently released!
3516311687	#1 A Deadly Education - ★#2 The Last Graduate - TBRI was so excited to read A Deadly Education by Naomi Novik.A Deadly Education is the first book in the Scholomance series. It was supposed to be everything I love – magic, magical school, a bit of romance. And it left me so disappointed and just empty within. I have no words of how sad I am to be writing this review. I am crushed, but I have to be honest to myself and to the people reading my reviews. Synopsis: A Deadly Education is indeed a story about a deadly magical school. This school, Scholomance, is a school for students that are magically gifted. There are no teachers and students are left alone to master skills and attend lessons. They are also forbidden to walk the halls at night, because deadly monsters are lurking from every corner. And the ultimate graduation test is a deadly game of survival by fighting these monsters. The students’ magic works based on either mana (the good magic) or malia (the bad magic). El is our main character in this book, who can use malia to defeat all the monsters, but that would involve killing the other students. Survival also means working on strategies and making allies with other people.And then we also have Orion Lake. He has many friends and admirers and he keeps saving El’s life. And she’s not impressed and hates him. My Thoughts: I feel like A Deadly Education was a great idea about a magical school that has a “Hunger Games” type of graduation, but somewhere in the middle the plot got lost and we got a weak story. First of all, I hated El. I don’t usually hate characters, but God, I really despised her. Not only was she incredibly rude all the time, but she was very entitled, self-centered and very selfish. I hated the fact that she always thought the world revolved about her. Furthermore, she kept pushing people away, especially her so-called friends and Orion. Then we have Orion Lake, who is portrayed as the hero, saving so many lives. Which he is. But he also is this person that can’t speak for himself, and seems like he does whatever other people tell him to do. And the romance between them was very non-existent. There wasn’t any form of attraction that I felt, only El’s rudeness. I don’t know how it escalated in the end to a romance, because I didn’t see it. El was even then being rude to him. This is such a hard review to write, as I know this book is widely popular. But for me, it didn’t hit the mark in any way. I wish there was more to it than just the deadly monsters and strategies for a graduation that was so talked about. And I wish the romance was real. But I’m still keen to read the second book, just to find out whether it will redeem itself, at least a bit. If you’re looking for a magical school, I’d suggest Hogwarts.This ain’t it.Wishlist | Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Ko-fi
3828464602	⭐8/10⭐ reseña en tiktok
4873970472	Este libro es super diferente al resto de novelas que he leído de Novik.Creo que es el más juvenil, y también el más "denso" porque está contado a manera de monólogo interno, sin apenas diálogo y con mucha información.Me costó un poquito entrar en la historia por eso mismo, y tardé bastante en leerlo pero acabé cogiéndole el gustillo, según avanzaban las páginas más me gustaba la protagonista y su manera de relacionarse con el resto de personajes.Me encanta porque una vez más juega con muchos estereotipos del género y les da la vuelta, pero aún así no es una novela que haya disfrutado locamente. Y aún así, me ha parecido original y curiosa, y tengo muchas ganas de descubrir más sobre lo que ocurre fuera del colegio, que me parece mucho más fascinante que lo que ocurre dentro xDSeguiré con la trilogía pero sin prisa
3425995962	3 what the hell did I just read? stars. Only reason I didn’t dnf was to stan El & Orion’s soft relationship. Literally skipped heaps of pages just to find dialogue. And then only cared for Orion and El interactions....12/27/2020: $3.99 on kindle US today! Waaaah $25?!! Whhhhhyyyy???! Hoping this is like all those Slytherin fanfics I died for over the years!! 🐍 7/4/2020
3535921981	3.5* There are a lot of good things about this book and I can totally see why people would enjoy this. But personally, I just couldn’t love it as much as I wanted to. For one, Novik’s writing style is a bit too verbose for my liking. The info dumping was just too much to handle. I had the same problem with Spinning Silver. Though it has a really interesting premise and an intriguing story line, I just couldn’t connect with the story. It’s unfortunate since I was really looking forward to this one.
3854412265	I loved this book immediately and completely, in an all-consuming way that hasn’t happened to me in years—starting in the evening resulted in my not being able to sleep for thinking about it. This obviously won’t happen to every reader; El is the sort of prickly heroine that most easily captures my heart: intense, talented, lonely, abrasive, witty, and principled, an idealistic misanthrope with a lot of anger at the hand she’s been dealt and a prophecy about her future villainy to boot. So I was immediately charmed.The book, accurately described as a YA/adult crossover, is set in a nightmarish wizarding school: in a world in which monsters are out to eat all magic users and they’re tastiest as adolescents, the kids are trapped in the Scholomance for four years supposedly for their own protection, without seeing the sun or having any communication with the outside world (other than notes carried in by freshmen or out by graduating seniors). Unfortunately many of the monsters make it into the school too, to the point that it seems more like four years of Hunger Games than Harry Potter (granted, Hogwarts can kill you, but it probably won’t). Much of the book is a chronicle of hypervigilance, as monsters pop out everywhere from the cafeteria food to the bathroom drains, and the kids don’t dare go far alone. This is a particular problem for the loner El, who’s been at the Scholomance almost three years without making friends, but of course that is about to change.At any rate, there’s a lot of action and entertaining monologue to keep readers engaged if you don’t happen to love El as much as I do, plus a detailed world that feels very real and awful, and some humor. I think a lot of readers will love this, and personally can’t wait for the sequel.Nevertheless I have a bunch of fannish commentary and nitpicks, which contains some spoilers, but if you have thoughts on this stuff I’d love to hear from you!(view spoiler)[1) The death rates among wizards in this world are wildly disproportionate to their birth rates: 75-95% of them die in adolescence, and yet we meet several only children, and no family is even mentioned with more than 3. Indications are that it's uncommon to overlap with siblings in the Scholomance, further suggesting a very low birth rate. The number of wizards from non-magical families also appears small. What’s going on here? I’d like to think a shrinking population is something the adults in this world are gravely considering and the Scholomance kids just don’t know it because none of them have seen or spoken to one since they were 14, but they seem pretty aware of the state of their world.2) Relatedly: I’m not entirely convinced by parents (particularly non-enclave parents) sending their kids to this school, or having kids at all under these circumstances. There’s rationality to it if 5% survive to adulthood outside the school and 25% within it, but the numbers are so low either way and the school so horrifying, on top of giving the parents no avenue to know what’s happening to their kids, that I suspect many parents would not make a statistics-based decision and would instead decide that they are in the top 5% and just need to keep their kids close and take the chances they can control. Which, maybe this happens and we just don’t know these people because they aren’t at the Scholomance, but the book doesn’t suggest it and Gwen seems likely to come to that conclusion if anyone does.3) I wound up with very mixed feelings about Gwen. She’s obviously a lovely person, and I was entertained by the whole “she’s completely hippy-dippy, but everything she does actually works” thing—she doesn’t seem to be under any illusions. But refusing to compromise her values in order to significantly reduce the chances of her daughter being eaten by monsters also seems awful. 4) I really enjoyed the conflict between El’s natural urge to destroy, and the values she’s picked up from her mom, even though it’s limited because so far her values win hands-down every time. Her snubbing the enclaves was frustrating to watch—like really, you aren’t going to protect yourself because it means accepting privileges not available to everyone? On the other hand, El isn’t just anyone and probably does have the power to change the system.5) I needed a little bit of “cut out that me-first bullshit” right now, though it seems to me the divide between the idealism of our literature and the reality of our incredibly selfish society is perhaps too wide to be breached. Not entirely related to this book but it helped reinforce a difficult decision not to jump the vaccine line despite pressure to do so.6) Back to the book. I’m not entirely buying the “Orion has never had a real friend because everyone hero-worships him too much” thing. He grew up around other kids, did they hero-worship him when he was 5? Also this seems more like a criticism of one’s existing friends than a reason not to have them. However, all of this is speculation from people other than Orion himself, and from the last line there are clearly things we don’t know about him. (Prophesied hero brought up to play the “letting people too close puts them in danger” game, perhaps?) On the other hand, maybe this is just Novik having fun with the hero archetype, in a book in which he’s not the protagonist and therefore gets to be an actual person. Which results in most people around him going “great, can we point him at the monsters and run?” without its ever occurring to Orion that he’s being taken advantage of. [Edit: I re-read this book for a buddy read, and my buddy quickly pegged Orion as the villain of a Stephen King novel who had inadvertently wandered into a world where his inclinations are socially valuable. Which I now think is actually Novik’s intent, which I initially missed because of my assumption of YA tropeyness!]7) It is true that, although the Scholomance has an international student body, you don’t get much sense of the different cultures the kids come from. I think there’s reason for this—they’ve all been in the Scholomance since they were 14, so belong to its culture more than anything else (they’re going to have some serious culture shock on top of the PTSD when they get out. I mean, last time El was able to see movies, her mom still had a veto!), and the wizards seem rather insular and separate from larger society even on the outside. The other representation-related criticisms I found way overblown.8) Finally, I’m expecting revelations in future books about the whole Scholomance situation not really being required. There’s some tension between “now the monsters are especially hungry because Orion has stopped them from eating so many of us!” (he did it by killing them, which seems equally effective at quelling their hunger [edit: though not at resolving the larger food chain issues, which are indeed referenced]) and “but the school needs to eat” (I suspect we’ll find out more about this in the next book). (hide spoiler)]
3584558680	Well that had one of the most remarkable magical systems I have read in a YA fantasy!This novel is set in a magical school where kids are trying to survive attacks from vicious monsters, each other, and the building itself. A few reviewers have commented on the info dumps and they are a hundred percent correct. I think at least 50% of this book was explaining the magical system in this wonderful world and the other 50% was El telling us what is happening in the school. That's a lot of splaining. However as my fellow South Island reviewer Fiona says in her review, "it's an info-dump only if it's boring". And people, this was not boring! Galadriel is quite a sassy character but not in that eye rolling annoying 'look at me be snarky' way we often see in YA. She is also special beyond belief but not in the 'I am a special snowflake' way. The author has struck a good balance with our spiky main character, Galadriel. This won't be for everyone due to the whole 'telling not showing' thing, but I enjoyed it a great deal. If I am thinking about the high school library I would probably say this is for more seasoned Readers. By the way Naomi, that's quite an ending for a reader to cope with when they don't have book two in their hands *said with tight smile*.
3717167799	This book was... interesting. It was also a lot. It's not often that I say this, but this book would have benefitted from being longer.This book takes place in a magical school with no faculty or adult supervision. Unfortunately, it's also full of monsters constantly trying to eat the students. And the worst part, it's impossible to leave until graduation, but to graduate, you have to make your way through a hall full of nightmarish creatures ready to devour you for your magic. Fun stuff, I know. I loved the idea and the setting, but it was also too much for one 300 page novel.With the setting and the magic being so complicated, there were times when the main character, El, went on for pages and pages dumping information on us. The history of the school and the complexities of the magical world are all delivered via info dump. I have to be honest I don't like info being dumped on me. If the book had been longer, I think everything would have been explored more organically and not through multiple straight pages of descriptions and background information.Another reason why I wish it had been longer is that the book seemed rushed. The whole thing happened within like three weeks. It felt like so much happened in such a short period. This wouldn't be an issue except that we're also supposed to believe that all those plans and relationships were developed in three weeks. I just wish the whole book would have been paced differently. All of that being said, the book did have a lot of great parts.For starters, I loved the idea of the school and the constant fear of monsters looming around. Although, I feel like this left me with many questions and possible plot holes. But, I digress. I really enjoyed the characters! El was intriguing and complex. She became even more interesting the deeper we delved into her psyche and really got a sense of who she was. At times, El's inner monologue about how no one liked her felt repetitive. But when everyone actively avoids you, it's hard not to have repetitive thoughts about how people dislike you.Orion was also a wonderful character. He is my favorite, and I was so scared that something was going to happen to him. He truly is a hero, and he deserves so much better than the fake friends he's had so far.Overall, I enjoyed the book. I didn't love it. But I liked it. I think the sequel has the potential to be great. I'm really looking forward to it, especially after the way this one ended!Follow Me Here Too: My Blog || Twitter || Bloglovin' || Instagram || Tumblr || Pinterest
3741874918	This book started off poorly for me but by the end I was absolutely in love with the characters and the world.🆗 I STRONGLY CONSIDERED DNF'ING this book at the 15% mark but I am so happy that I decided to continue because I really ended up enjoying it. The beginning was very confusing to me because you're just kind of thrown into this complex world with a very angsty heroine, but eventually it all comes together🆗 EL WAS A VERY POLARIZING HEROINE with a strong voice that took a while for me to warm up to. She was so maliciously sarcastic and kind of immature. At the beginning, this really bothered me, but the more I read the more I started to like how extreme she was and began sympathizing with her❌ TOO MANY MONOLOGUES ABOUT NOTHING. There were so many fanciful descriptions that, while adding a lot of color to the world, weren't necessary and I eventually just started skipping over. Honestly, it reminded me a lot of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, which I personally found frivolous but I know a lot of people like these types of details✅ I ADORED THE FRIENDSHIP that formed between the girls. I hope that nothing happens to them in the sequels because they're all such great characters and I really want them to succeed!✅ THE SCHOLOMANCE SCHOOL was sooo awesome! It takes the academy trope but adds a ton of new and interesting things to it. I loved how everything the students did revolved around "survival of the fittest" and how their own desire to survive is what drove them to learn and become better at their magicOverall, this book really ended up surprising me. There was not a lot of romance, which is normally a negative for me, but everything else was so creative and interesting that I was able to get over the lack of romance. I'm definitely rooting for El and her friends so I'm excited to see how things play out in their senior year!-------I accidentally deleted my initial review of this book 😭😭 Very sad. I tried my best to remember what I originally wrote in my updated review above.
4474655475	قبل از این هر کتابی را در ژانر مدرسه‌ی جادو میخوندم، ستینگ و ساختار و روند داستانش را ناخودآگاه با کتاب‌های هری‌پاتر مقایسه میکردم و خوب هیچ کدوم از اون‌ها برای من از قواعدی که داستان‌های هری پایه‌گذاری کرده بودند، فراتر نمی‌رفت.تا اینکه رسیدم به مجموعه‌ی Carry On از Rainbow Rowell و باید بگم خوندنش خیلی زیاد بهم چسبید. بهتر از هر کتاب دیگه‌ای در ژانر مدرسه‌ی جادو که بعد از داستان‌های هری خونده بودم.اون داستان یک ادای دین شوخ و شنگ و تازه به این ژانر بود و فکر نمی‌کردم بعد از اون، کتاب دیگه‌ای در این زیر ژانر بخونم که بیشتر از اون خوندنش برام فان و مفرح باشه و بتونه حسابی هم من را بخندونه!!!!برای من هر چه که هری در ایجاد موقعیت‌های بامزه در خودش کم داشت در مجموعه‌ی «ادامه بده» پیدا میشد.تا اینکه....تا اینکه با مجموعه داستان‌های اسکلومنس و کتاب اولش یعنی تحصیلات مرگبار آشنا شدم 😃باید بگم این کتاب با نثر بامزه، شخصیت‌ها و موقعیت‌های فان و عالی که خلق میکرد و با نگاه کاملا متفاوت و جالبش به مفهوم جادو، استفاده از جادو، بهای استفاده از اون و از همه مهم‌تر مفهوم یک مدرسه ‌ی جادوی کاملا عوضی و مقید به ادابی عجیب و متفاوت یکی از مفرح‌ترین، بامزه‌ترین و خوش و خرم‌ترین لحظات کتاب‌خوانی را برام رقم زد.این بهرحال یک نظر شخصی هست!در‌مورد داستان چیزی نمی‌نویسم فقط حسم را زمان خوندنش اینجا بیان می‌کنم و اگر سوال بیشتری در مورد مجموعه و داستان دارید پیام بگذارید تا در موردش بیشتر صحبت کنیم.و اینکه علیرغم لذت زیادی که از خوندنش بردم، چرا ازش یک ستاره کم کردم، دلیل اصلیش در یک قدم مانده به پایان‌بندی داستان هست. هر چند که داستان کتاب اول با جمله‌ای غیرمنتظره تمام میشه که هر چه داستان تا اون نقطه برای شما ساخته را زیرسوال میبره اون هم از طرف کسی که اصن انتظارش را ندارید اما قبل از اون چالشی در داستان بوجود میاد که انتظار پرداختی باشکوه‌تر و مهیج‌تر براش داشتم که برآورده نشد متاسفانه!و بگم که این مجموعه کارکتری بهمون معرفی میکنه که برای من شخصا و بسرعت در صدر لیستِ شخصیت‌های بامزه‌ی بی‌اعصابِ تیکه‌بندازِ تندمزاج قرار گرفت 😂😂🙌
5674579015	DNF @ 55%
3592509399	“Some sorcerers get an affinity for weather magic, or transformation spells, or fantastic combat magics like dear Orion. I got an affinity for mass destruction.” I am still sort of contemplating between a 4 and a 4.5. But either way, the fact that this book was pretty damn good doesn't change. This was easily one of my most highly anticipated books of this year. I must admit, the entire idea of a twisted, dark Hogwarts, with a badass MC with an affinity for laying waste to the entire world, was very compelling. But although this entire magic school theme and some other elements do remind you of the Harry Potter world, I would under no circumstances go ahead and say that they are similar to each other. While certain tropes are definitely borrowed, this book is pretty damn original and creative. I loved what the author did with the world-building. Hold on, let me rephrase. I loved the world that had been created, although the worldbuilding bit could have been better. And I will come to that. But before that, I must gush about how cool and creative, albeit thoroughly dark and ominous this world was. It was outright bizarre and weird. And I love bizarre and weird. I really liked how certain aspects of how things work at the school and wizardry, in general, were crafted. First of all, I was very into the entire idea of a school that runs on its own, without any teachers, without any supervision and of course, with a sordid manifestation of deadly monsters (malefecaria). And I really liked the other things that were introduced as well. Such as the system of classes, assignments, other chores were created without any teachers, or stuff like inanimate objects and tools getting alive and coming after you if you do not finish you work on time and just a bunch of other stuff that I am not going to list here but were totally insane. This school is a nightmare and while I was appreciating the creativity of it, I was also so horrified by it. Remember, how as kids we would wait for our own invitation letters from Hogwarts, fantasizing about living our wizardry/witchy lives to the fullest? Yeah, well, Scholomance is not going to make you feel any of that. When I said it was a nightmare, I meant it and I would have probably not lasted a day in that school if I were to actually attend it.Okay, now coming onto the worldbuilding. Although I really liked the author’s imagination, I also felt that the actual process of worldbuilding and how it was introduced to the reader was a bit overwhelming. What I am trying to say in simpler terms is that there was a lot of info dumps. At times it just felt like too many words thrown at me and it was very hard for me to actually visualize whatever that is being described. So there were parts where I had to re-read a number of times and still, I was a bit lost and then I would end up kind of coming up with my own explanation, in the sense that I would try to satisfy myself with thinking that okay, so this is probably what this means. So quite a few times (not always), instead of being able to actually clearly be able to gauge the explanation or the narration of certain events that these long paragraphs entailed, I would simply end up going along with what I felt was most likely going on. I don’t know, does that even make any sense? I feel like I am doing a horrible job at describing this particular situation but yes, that was what happened. Characters I really enjoyed the characterization in this book. Most characters aren’t conventionally likeable but then that is what is going to be realistic when it comes to a school such as this where everyone has to look out and fend for their own self. Survival is what that means everything so obviously, you will not find a lot of Mary Sues in here. Except for Orion maybe. He is definitely Mary Sue, or Marty Stru (I have no idea what the male version is called). But that is what makes his dynamic with El all the more interesting and hilarious. Lets start with El (Galadriel). I loved, loved, loved her. She was such a cool MC. El has an affinity for mass destruction. She is snarky, has a bad temper, and can be unreasonable sometimes. And she is not the nicest person you will never meet but then again, that is what makes her realistic. It is important to understand that no one can afford to be nice here (except for some dumb heroic idiots *cough* Orion *cough*). She is the most realistic badass MC I have seen with very real issues. And while on the outside, she might be the bitchiest person you meet, she probably is the best person in the entire school. Which you will understand once you read the book. El is biracial, half Welsh and half Indian. As an Indian, I felt quite satisfied with the information about Indan languages and some other stuff that were there in the book. It felt authentic and I am glad for that. I often see very generalized statements about Inda in a lot of books but the thing is that India being sich a diverse country with so many cultures, it would hardly be accurate to make generalised, stereotypical statements that would stand true for all the different diverse groups. One really annoying thing that I have noticed in some books (or I think it was just one, I do not remember), an Indian language being called “Hindu language”. Which was the most absurd thing I have ever seen. What in the world is even a Hindu language? Anyways, I am not going to go there. But yes, the point being made is that I was quite satisfied with the representations in the book. El is not the only one who falls in this category, there are plenty of other characters from various parts of the world.Next, Orion. “I decided that Orion needed to die after the second time he saved my life.” Orion is our sunshine, heroic male MC whose affinity is for destroying malefacaria. I found Orion adorable and also quite funny. I mean he was not funny, he is sort of dumb and dense. It was how he would act and basically his conversations with El that were super hilarious from a reader’s point o view. There is not really much of a romance as of now but I can sense one developing maybe in the later book/s. And I am totally looking forward to that. I also dig the contrast in their personalities, I think they make a nice team.As for the other supporting characters, I quite liked Liu and Aadhya as well. I will admit, I was suspicious of Aadhya for a long time. Perhaps I was reading into things a little too much and I suspected sometimes certain behaviours or exchanges Aadhya and El had was sort of like a foreshadowing that something bad will happen? But I think that is just me trying to over-analytical and all that stuff. Because otherwise, I was very glad to see some nice girl bonding happening between the three of them. El needs that. She has never had friends all her life. And o matter how much of a tough front she might [ut up, she is still a teenager who wants to make friends. So that was really sweet. So needless to say, I am super excited for the sequel. Especially after that weird cliffhanger. I am sort of scared about it. I mean scared in the sense, I don’t want certain things to get ruined because I like them way too much. That’s all I can say without spoiling stuff for you all. But I am sure Nomi Novik will come up wit a yet another bizarre, dark and thoroughly entertaining sequel.
3893952119	Lo primero que voy a decir es que no es un libro para cualquiera.Lo segundo que voy a decir es que me voy gratamente sorprendida con este libro. Me gustó un montón.Una educación mortal nos presenta un colegio de magia dónde los alumnos están constantemente expuestos al peligro, dónde mueren alumnos a diario por ataques de monstruos y demás. Para eso, deben formar alianzas y protegerse en grupos, pero eso no va a ser tan fácil para nuestra protagonista Galadriel quien no quiere tener contacto con los demás alumnos.Este libro no es cómo cualquier otro. El mundo de fantasía es complejo y la autora se va a encargar de contarte cada uno de los detalles. Es un libro corto, pero al tener capítulos tan largos y casi nada de diálogos me tomó bastante tiempo leerlo. De todas formas lo disfruté un montón.El mundo mágico está genial, la cantidad de monstruos, el colegio con sus clases y rituales y los hechizos. Me gustó mucho cómo es que los alumnos intercambiaban hechizos y objetos mágicos todo para conseguir su propia supervivencia y la de sus aliados.Tiene poco romance pero igual me gustó. Desde la página uno hubo shippeo intenso jajajajja y un enemies to lovers tremendo. Donde ella tiene un carácter re fuerte y quiere hacer todo por su cuenta y él es el héroe del colegio y le salva la vida a todo el mundo. Espero que el segundo libro tenga más romance.La última frase del libro me mató. NECESITO SABERRRRR jajajajajsjYo leyendo una educación mortal: 🤩😱😳😎😂
3358428436	[Gifted]I stayed up until 5am reading this in one glorious burst, and I feel dead today but it was so worth it. If there's anyone in the world I stan, it's Naomi Novik (she MADE ARCHIVE OF OUR OWN!! she writes stories which INFECT MY BRAIN! her plot mechanisms are feats of engineering!) so I was incredibly excited for this. This is a take on the 'magical school' trope, which examines the idea that magic is a free, unlimited resource for students who are good enough at casting. Instead, you have to put real effort into collecting enough energy to cast spells (knitting or doing sit-ups are popular choices). Otherwise, you have to take life force from other living things to cast spells. It's something I examined in my next book The Reckless Afterlife of Harriet Stoker, where I wanted to examine the source of ghosts' energy - they have to fight amongst themselves to get the most power, or disintegrate. So this hit me in my sweet spot, in a topic I've thought a lot about recently. It's the most brutal, wonderfully cutthroat world of death and horror, within the closed environment of an ancient, falling apart school made entirely of metal, under siege by creatures desperate to consume the students' magic. The characters are great too: a girl who is destined to be evil, and a boy who is destined to be a hero. Both of them aren't entirely happy with accepting their fates, and rebel against it in different ways. El's mum was also brilliant - I love how the truth about her crept in slowly, starting with little references and growing into something really impressive. The beginning of the novel is a little exposition heavy, but that's only because once it gets going, it literally does not pause for breath until the final page. Novik is a master at setting up a plot to unfurl in a series of staggeringly well-thought out bursts of action, weaving together into an imaginative climax. This is no exception, and I am so, so excited for the sequel. I want more of vicious El and her lovely, besotted Orion.
4305632414	I've tried so long to understand how I feel about this book and the only word that came up to my mind is “meh”.And it's even accurate for the situation: I didn't hate it, but it was so difficult to read.This is the first time I read something written by Naomi Novik; I'm basically here because the elements for a great story were there and I thought they were worth a shot.Was I right? Well, this isn't definitely the magic school you want to study in. It's kind of like a bad mix between Harry Potter and Shadowhunters, and I know it feels weird because it is!If you don't care about this toxic environment where teenagers have to fight for their lives every hour of every day and can't do anything alone - it's dangerous even to stay in your room during the day -, the most difficult thing to tolerate is the protagonist.El isn't just an antihero, she makes herself being hated because it’s so simple to do that. She's rude, arrogant, and bossy. She complains all the time because she's alone and when someone tries to be nice to her, it seems she wants to be slapped. And most of the time she just keeps repeating things she has already said like five times. Unfortunately, due to some coincidences, she also tries to not kill everybody in that school with a snap of fingers, so this makes her a “good person” I guess. So yes, I'm not a big fan of her but there are some things I appreciate about her temper - like her stubbornness and her independence -, but there are also nice secondary characters that most of the time are on the scene. Liu and Aadhya are my personal favorites, but Orion is also a good character that needs to be developed. I don't know about you, but I'm not really convinced about the “I-just-like-killing-monsters” type of hero. Shocking discovery: this is supposed to be a love story, above the magic and the near end of the world. I didn't see it coming, I had no idea because I was too busy to try to understand what I was reading. There is so much information in just one page and most of the time they are in the middle of a conversation about something else. I still don't get a couple of things that I'm certain I've read. So, my point is that it's difficult to read it.Why just don't say it's bad then? It's complicated: I didn't love this story, but the ending made me question every single word I’ve read. And now, lucky me, I HAVE TO read the next book because I can't believe the real villain was in front of me for all this time and I didn't recognize it. ↠ 3 stars
3619178207	I've never read a book from Naomi Novik before but now I have the urge to go and devour her entire backlog, her writing is *chefs kiss*This was so good! I loved every second of it, El was such an interesting character for the story to be told through and it was just so well done! I'm super excited for a second book I need my hands on it right now after that final line please omg!The world building in this was honestly amazing, it was so well thought out and the story was great to go along with it. An easy 5*, I'm so glad I picked this up, I demand everyone who has this on their tbr's goes and reads its asap
3582102173	Detailed review coming soon!
6353168001	El, short for Galadriel, is an outcast at her school. Every day the students fight creatures called "mals" to survive and take classes at the same time. When school star Orion saves El from a mal, she sparks his attention when she doesn't act like all of his fawning admirers. But El doesn't want anything from Orion, she just wants to make it to graduation. At first, when I started reading this book I thought I would DNF it. Naomi Novik is an author who doesn't always work for me and I was skeptical but wanted to give this book a chance. The world-building info dump at the beginning of the book may deter a lot of readers, but once you get past the first 40-50 pages it really picks up the pace from there.I'm a sucker for an "unlikeable heroine" and El was great. She was mean, unfriendly, and completely vulnerable but had no way to show it. The developing friendship between her and Orion was fun to watch, and I ended up loving a lot of the side characters in this book too. By the end, I was running to the bookstore to buy the next two books because I want to read them as soon as possible.
3407009088	As much as I liked the concept and the plot, the writing really ruined it for me.
3389181838	I was bored to death, and I remain uneducated following A Deadly Education. I was unconvinced and not pulled in by the characters, cared little for the world Naomi Novik "built" through seemingly endless exposition, failed to feel like any kind of stakes or real fear/danger were set up despite the dark monster backdrop, and slogged with considerable effort through this read to get to the (mildly interesting with meh cliffhanger) ending. This is a 2 star read for me and that's probably even a generous one. I use the goodreads ratings description to rate books, and A Deadly Education was just ok, and it was ok like how eating a sandwich made up of two pieces of bread and a smear of butter is ok. If I’m hungry I’ll eat it and it’s edible, but it’s not a sandwich I like, love, dream of, crave, and it’s still a sandwich, just an unsatisfying one. My main issue is even though we are in dark magic school with dangerous monsters lurking about ready to devour, it feels as though NOTHING HAPPENS. Almost 85% of this book is exposition and info dumping. I wouldn’t even call it world building: to me that term invokes mastery and skill in weaving the details of the world into the plot, so we are learning about the environment in tandem with following the characters and their experiences; here it seemed like the “action” or what little there was of it would freeze and then paragraphs and paragraphs of backstory or detail would fill in. It was tedious and frequent, and it really inhibited my ability to immerse myself in Novik’s new universe.And maybe the long paragraphs describing some of the whats and the hows and the wheres of it all but not advancing the plot or characters much would be fine, if Novik had given us characters to pique our interest or let us truly feel the stakes of the story. But neither occurred. Even though we are in Galadriel/El’s point of view, I feel as though we never got to know her beyond her rude standoffish demeanor, hiding of her destructive powers, and irritation with the pseudo hero of the novel Orion Lake. Orion Lake is a sort of caring jock-ish invulnerable hero possibly hiding a secret all his own, but I was not MOVED or INTERESTED at all in what it might be. The classmates of El who orbit between enemies allies and maybe friends are lightly drawn and given minimal dialogue (what with the exposition taking up all the space). And let it be known that the so-called diversity trumpeted just feels like stand-in stock characters who are made to be ethnic minorities solely to say LOOK IT'S DIVERSITY, which I loathe. None of it felt authentic or meaningful.It’s also written in a manner that maybe made it harder for me to connect. It’s all first person from El’s perspective, so there’s teen angst and irritation and a breezy tone throughout. The problem is it just made it harder to engage and put a wall up between me and El, a hurdle to overcome to immerse in the world. I could at least read on the page that El had genuine fear of her powers getting out of control and of surviving another year, but I didn’t feel it... for a dark book about an undergoing school menaced by monsters there was very little in the way of atmosphere. I never really felt the characters dread or fear or eerie creepy feelings, or even their delight or power or sadness. It seemed like after every “dramatic” monster encounter they were all back in the lunch line and figuring out where people would sit in the cafeteria, a big whomp whomp. It was I suppose so regular for these kids to face and experience death that they didn’t emote much, but that didn’t make for very interesting reading overall. The predominant emotion was El’s disgust for Orion, a cover for sure for more complex emotions - we don’t really see but are told about - but it still permeated the feel of the read and threw me off balance.I might be one of the few reviewers thus far who knows Naomi Novik more from her very very long Temeraire series that kicked off with His Majesty's Dragon and stretched over a bunch of books (Uprooted has been on my to-read list for a mighty long time, and I'm not sure if A Deadly Education has hastened or destroyed my interest). While the Temeraire books were adult historical fiction meets fantasy, I stayed with the series for awhile until I discovered a sort of odd pattern past the first few books: one book of action, plot, and movement, and followed by one of immense info dumps and some character development but not a lot there there, plus a general decline in writing quality. A Deadly Education unfortunately falls into the trap that those less good Temeraire books are in: lots of ideas and maybe something cool in there, but little plot, little dynamism, and inspiring little feeling in the reader.To sum up again, it was ok. I went in with medium expectations - a dark school of magic, death and monsters lurking around the corner is a pretty easy sell - and endured an experience that let me down but in ways I couldn’t care less about. I was mostly bored and unsatisfied, I wouldn’t recommend it and I definitely won't continue the series BUT it wasn’t terrible and hopefully others will find the greatness in this book where I could not!
4357743306	I'm no stranger to Naomi Novik--love the Temeraire series and both Uprooted and Spinning Silver are fairytale masterpieces! But this is my first dive into Dark Academia. Probably because of this the book was a bit disorienting at first. Once I got into it though, I fell all the way in! The main protagonist here is just the snarky, cynical bit of "whatever" I ordered for this type of story. The worldbuilding is amazing--and terrifying! I'll never just eat a breakfast buffet the same way again. Overall, ended up enjoying this little book. And I'll definitely be there for the next.
3912693020	Literal podría leer a El y a Orion todo el día.Hay historias las cuales se tienen que dejar marinar un poquito, tenerles paciencia mientras estas agarran su jugo poco a poco. Una educación mortal es una de esas historias y estoy de lo más feliz de haberle dado esa oportunidad, porque al final termino siendo un festín de fantasía que me enamoró por completo.Naomi Novik tiene una habilidad que no he visto mucho al momento de crear el mundo. Puede escribir el mundo más complejo en cuestión de páginas y lo hace de una manera muy completa. Es de esas autoras que te suelta demasiada información en solo un par de páginas, lo cuál puede llegar a ser abrumador (esto de hecho fue uno de mis problemas con el libro) pero mientras más avanzas más le agarras el hilo y llega un punto donde van de la mano la autora y el lector, y esto se vuelve increíble.Decir que me enamoré por completo del mundo y de El como protagonista es poco. Desde el inicio te cautiva su voz, llena de sarcasmo, ingenio y un poco de arrogancia. Es de esos personajes que amas u odias, y yo estoy en el primer grupo. Descubrir el mundo a través de sus ojos ayuda un poco a rebajar la densidad de este, ya que al tener una voz con la que te puedes identificar la construcción de la historia se vuelve más digerible.Uno de mis aspectos favoritos del libro es la tensión con la que me mantuve leyéndolo. En este mundo los personajes se ven atacados por monstruos que quieren su magia, y el colegio de la Escolomancia se vuelve un villano en cierto punto, debido a su espontaneidad e inesperada forma de actuar. Además de esto, el libro tiene un cast extremadamente diverso porque hay personajes de todos los países, culturas y procedencias, agregando ese factor de sazón a la novela.Pero, sin duda, el highlight del libro para mi definitivamente fue la relación de El y Orion. Dinámica, interesante, llamativa y encantadora. Tienen una relación como ninguna otra, empezando cual rivales y progresando poco a poco. Me enamoraron apenas unas cuantas páginas de haber empezado el libro, y me muero de ganas por seguir leyendo su desarrollo mientras más vaya avanzando con la trilogía.Un libro que recomiendo a todos, porque tiene esa cualidad de enamorar a lectores de todas las edades. Un diamante en bruto dentro del género.
3288687021	Edit to add: there is a passage that is VERY CLEARLY a racial microaggression against Black culture, specifically Black hair (dreadlocks) and that shit made it through editing and white reviewers have failed to point out how problematic this is. This is a huge failure from Naomi Novik and DelRey Books. I really tried with this one, but I haven't even hit the 20% mark on this one and I desperately need to DNF this book. One of my biggest pet peeves when it comes to books is assuming that your readers are incapable of grasping complex worldbuilding, so you feel the need to constantly be condescending with monotonous exposition interludes. Chapter one starts with our MC Galadriel 'El' being rescued by Orion, another magical student at the Scholomance from some magical beast. That takes up all of a few pages. The reader is then subjected to one of the most painful info dumps that I've ever experienced for 20+ pages as the MC addresses the audience with every painstaking detail and history surrounding said creature. After my eyes were done rolling back to my head, we finally get back to El and Orion only for the chapter to abruptly end. Cue chapter two. Now we have sentences that last a full page. Talk about flashbacks to the tedium that is T.S. Eliot's The Wasteland. And again, there's a page or two of action before the El goes back to her pedestal to lecture the reader about the history of the Scholomance rather than just letting us experience it for ourselves. I got through half of chapter three, but as soon as El started her history lesson again rather than, oh I dunno show so character depth or her experiences at the Scholomance, I realized that I had enough. Thank you to Del Rey Books for providing a review copy through NetGalley. This did not influence my review. All opinions are my own.
3914771175	3,5⭐️Lo primero que voy a destacar de este libro es que es MUY lento!!! Eso se debe a que es muy descriptivo y muy narrativo, casi no existen los diálogos!! Eso ha hecho que me costara muchísimo avanzar. Pero también os debo decir que el mundo y los personajes principales que ha creado la autora me han encantado. Me ha gustado mucho El y también Orion, y ver cómo avanzaba la relación entre estos personajes, pero sobretodo cómo evolucionaba El. Ha sido un libro que me ha hecho pensar en “Los juegos del hambre” por el tema de tener que sobrevivir y crear alianzas, pero con un toque de Magia, la cual me ha faltado ver más, pues se habla mucho de ella pero no se muestra tanto. Galadriel (El) es sarcástica, pero tiene sus miedos y también sus metas muy claras (sobrevivir, vamos... jajajajajaj). El final es donde se concentra toda la acción y ha sido muy intenso! Y también es donde se aprecia la evolución/resultado de los personajes. Sin duda voy a leer el segundo, pero me lo tomaré con calma y consciente de que la autora es muy descriptiva.
3581971358	A 4.25 stars.For a book with little to no plot, it’s great. It was very compulsive to read and I couldn’t put it down. All the types of wizards and magics were explained in a huge detail- 80% of the book is just filler (hence the rating) but surprisingly, I enjoyed it- It wasn’t boring at all. El’s character was interesting, with affinity to murder and destruction yet inherently good at heart, she’s constantly torn between the two choices. Her pov was what kept me going.Even the El and Orion’s dynamic was cute. After that cliffhanger at the end, I need to read the sequel asap.
3495435610	Free copy provided in exchange for an honest review. This in no way changes my rating or review. buddy read with Mina :)) 5 obsessed stars! I LOVED this, and I don’t even know why. It was somehow both incredibly confusing and incredibly addictive, and the writing style was absolutely STUNNING, but I can definitely see why people would hate this.This book was shockingly unique. A school with no teachers, where only 1/4 of the kids make it out of the school alive? That’s a new one, and so was this entire world. Ripe with deadly monsters and a crap-ton of violence, book 1 in The Scholomance was definitely a unique concept. “In fact, it’s entirely possible there are loads of unknowing potential wizards out there, people like Luisa who could hold enough mana to cast spells, only they’ve been raised mundane and so they can’t, because they don’t know that magic works, which means it doesn’t.” Does that make absolutely no sense to you? Welcome to Scholomance, where I only understood about half of what was happening. Yeah, the info-dumps definitely didn’t help – and there were a lot of them – but surprisingly I actually didn’t mind the fact that I comprehended practically nothing! I felt that it just added to the charm of the book, increasing the violent and confusing atmosphere that Novik so wonderfully wrote about.And then there were the characters! I honestly really loved El, but I can definitely see why people hated her, because she was a real bitch. I didn’t even mind though, her insults were just so creative and wonderful (did I highlight them for the soul purpose of using them in the future? Yes, yes I did. But don’t worry, I’ll put the best ones in a list below.) and her personality – acidic though it may have been – was really easy to relate to and was really believable. I also really loved Orion – the Scholomance golden boy – and his relationship with El, their very minimal romance combined with their hilarious friendship was just absolutely wonderful. Orion was like my little child, and I’m so glad that El had him at her side. “-what are you doing?” he burst out.“What?”“Why are you being this nice?” he said. “Are you mad at me for something?” Yep, that just about sums up El and Orion’s relationship. Wonderful, isn’t it?Now, this book didn’t really have a plotline, but I honestly didn’t mind that much. It was still very addictive and entertaining, and the world was crazy enough that it barely needed a plotline – just the life of El was weird enough! Be warned though: there’s a bit of a cliffhanger, and it killed me a little. I can’t wait until July… book 2, here I come!All up, this was an absolutely hilarious and wonderful book! Thank you so much to the author and publisher and Netgalley for this brilliant ARC :)). EL’S GREATEST INSULTS: ~ “it’s Galadriel…. and if that’s too many syllables for you to manage all in one go, El will do”~ “He’s going to be fine!”“No, he’s not, I’m going to bash his head in with a brick”(not really an insult, but it’s funny anyway)~ “It’s a grogler, you brainless cod!”~ “Don’t even open your mouth in my direction, you overgrown lemming”~ “Orion Lake, that means you, you tragic blob of unsteamed pudding, we’re going. Orion!”
3299385317	If you'd asked me two chapters in for my rating, A Deadly Education would have been sitting around two stars. I *really* struggled with this book initially, finding that Novik was somehow both over and under-explaining the world-building and magic system simultaneously, leaving me overwhelmed yet confused. There was a lot of info dumping in those first few chapters, but without proper explanations of basic terminology, that left me taking copious notes, guessing at how the magic worked, and rereading passages wondering if I'd missed something - and I am very accustomed to fantasy novels with extensive and complex world-building and magic systems. Eventually, thankfully, things became clearer, and we received enough additional information to comfortably exist in the world Novik created, but it was a clunky and confusing start that would have probably led to a DNF if this hadn't been our February pick for the PBB book club.I was also intensely turned off by Galadriel's attitude from page one, struggling to root for her and her disdain for everything and everyone around her. Luckily, A Deadly Education picked up steam in the second half, delivering a diverse cast of (mostly) layered characters, and I found myself rooting for them as they faced some truly terrifying monsters, despite my initial reservations. This book has a lot of heart, primarily in its relationships. Whether it's El discovering the joy of friendship or the unwavering love of her mother, the emotional depth of these connections was a highlight for me. By the end of the book, I was thoroughly invested in (most of) these characters and their journeys.The one glaring exception for me was Orion, who felt underdeveloped throughout the entire series. His character had so much potential, but Novik didn't go nearly as far as I would have liked to explore why Orion is the way he is and who he is past surface-level traits. There are "reasons" for him to be the way he is, but I don't think his character was nearly as well developed as he deserved.Overall, though, this turned into a much better book than I expected, and I enjoyed it enough to read the second and third books in the trilogy very quickly. The examination of classism and privilege, nature vs nurture, and the sacrifice of younger generations to protect the comfort of those who came before added a lot of depth and nuance to a story that otherwise could have fallen a bit flat. If you're looking for a Dark Academia fantasy novel in a school setting with terrifying monsters and you don't mind that the characters are teenagers and the slow start, I'd give this series a try!Representation: BIPOC mc & secondary charactersTrigger/Content Warnings: violence, blood, death, body horror, classism You can find me on...Youtube | Instagram | TikTokYou can join our book club over on Patreon...PBB Book Club
3263687440	Magical, glorious, wonderful, hilarious, heartbreaking. There aren't enough words to describe how fabulous this book was, let alone much I loved it. I just . . . I want to press it to my heart and sigh deeply. I want to carry it in a sling and talk to it and tell it that it's such a good book, and make it an inlaid case of purple heartwood to protect it.
3456660490	I absolutely loved this! This is about how our heroine’s life goes through a total turn about in the space of a year. The setting of the school was so well thought out and absolutely nothing like Hogwarts! El (Galadriel) is a girl I thoroughly empathised with from the beginning, although I’m not sure what that says about me! Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
3180292813	The synopsis for A Deadly Education filled me with so much excitement when I first read it a year ago. And yet I put of reading it for months after its release, because I was scared. The reason for that fear? In a word: Uprooted. While I didn’t loathe it with every fiber of my being like my co-blogger Petrik did, I very much did not understand the love for that book. So many people adore it. And I desperately wanted to share in that adoration, I really did. On paper, it should have absolutely worked for me. Rich setting, interesting magic, a fairytale retelling that flips its source material on its head. It should have become an instant new favorite for me. And yet, it didn’t. I struggled my way through it. So you can see why I’d be scared to try A Deadly Education, right? I have a huge weakness for magic schools, but I wondered if maybe Novik’s writing just wasn’t for me. I am excited to report that my fears proved themselves to be unfounded. I took to this book immediately and loved every single page. Whatever my disconnect was with Uprooted, Novik’s a gifted author with a talent for immersive writing, and I’m already counting down the days until The Graduate, the second book in the Scholomance series, is published.The Scholomance, a school for magical children, is fascinating. Imagine Hogwarts, but where everything wants to eat you. There are no teachers in the Scholomance, or adults of any kind. The school divvies out the classes and assignments. Whether you want them or not. And you better do your very best on what your given and finish everything you’re assigned, because the school has no problem meting out punishments. It’s a dark place, full of danger and monsters. And the reason these magical kids attend the school is because it’s SAFER?! Students have a one-in-four chance of survival to adulthood, instead of the one-in-twenty chance they would have outside the school. No wonder our main character is so crotchety.Galadriel, or El, is perhaps the youngest curmudgeon I’ve ever met in fiction. She’s so darn angry all the time, and she has every right to be. Not only is the school she attends a fan of eating its students, but her fellow classmates have all decided she’s evil and won’t have anything to do with her. Which is really dangerous, because you need someone watching your back. It’s also really unfair, because Galadriel far from evil, no matter what that prophecy said. She can’t help that her affinity is for mass destruction. It’s not like she wants the school giving her spells to melt bones or activate super volcanoes. She just wants to get out alive. Preferably without actually going over to the dark side.And then there’s Orion Lake, the hero and golden boy of the Scholomance. For reasons that baffle her, Orion has decided to attach himself to El. Both of their lives are about to change radically.While I really loved learning about the school and the world Novik has created outside of it, my favorite element of this book was the slow-burning character development. Honestly, the characters seemed awful at first. Especially El. But as she grudgingly grew, so did those around her. I ended up loving her and her core group fiercely by the end of the novel, and I already miss them. And their snark. Because there was a ton of snark. El is incredibly sarcastic and I love it.The Scholomance itself is such a unique magical school, and the world building Novik wove within its weird walls is pretty incredible. The lessons are tedious and difficult and, in some cases, insanely powerful. Every kid in the school is overworked and worn ragged, but most of that workload is self-inflicted. The more you learn, the better chance you have of escaping alive. The student body runs off of trade and alliances, which was an interesting dynamic to observe in a teenaged cast. I loved how these kids had shaped a way of life for themselves sans any adult supervision. Honestly, adults weren’t needed. The students were plenty motivated without them. I had tentatively high expectations for A Deadly Education, and those expectations were definitely exceeded. This is a world I’m really looking forward to revisiting. I can’t wait to see what happens next in the series. If you love magic schools but have always wanted a maniacally hungry one with a bit of a Lord of the Flies vibe, look no further.You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.
3243812717	2020 Fall Bingo (#fallintorombingo🍁): ‪Somewhere You've Never Been B review: https://smartbitchestrashybooks.com/r...Disclaimer: I received a free e-ARC from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
5148401533	This is a phenomenal book, and I will absolutely be reading the next in the series.I've had a book hangover for about....3 years now? The pandemic ruined my focus for reading, and shifted my spare time toward international TV. So reading a book that hooked me so thoroughly and wonderfully is just a gift.I'm a huge fan of the "magical boarding school genre", and love the dark humor that infused this school story. The main character reminded me of a Wednesday Addams; the setting is incredibly unique and surreal and ominous; the pacing is a perfect balance of action and character development. There's a type of found family here, too. It's a story of high school cliques told with profoundly dangerous consequences for those outside their security. (Oh! One other comment: it's also funny. I treasure a book that balances real consequences and danger with humor.)Diversity is important to me. In what I read and watch, I always look for queer rep, racial diversity, and strong voices for women. There are characters with diverse backgrounds here; and it's a story told from the perspective of a strong young woman. While I'm not sure I've identified any queer characters, the entire story feels queer because it's about ostracism, and being left outside the warmth of the popular campfire. Highest recommendation. (And if you like historical fantasy, read Temeraire!!!!)
3904726485	rating: 4.5/5⭐️canción: mad woman de taylor swiftCuando comencé este libro tenía miedo porque estaba entrando en un bloqueo lector y fue justo lo que necesitaba para salir de él🤩 es un libro de fantasía bastante denso, con mucha descripción y poco diálogo, pero la narrativa de la autora es fascinante!El mundo creado en el libro es buenísimo🤯; la idea de un colegio del cual no se puede salir hasta graduarse y en el que sus monstruos pueden matarte en cualquier minuto (de hecho, para graduarte tienes que sobrevivir!) me pareció muy entretenida. En general, todo el sistema de la escuela es absorbente y te mantiene interesado a lo largo del libro en seguir leyendo💗Me gustó mucho la evolución de la protagonista, su forma de conseguir lo que quiere me pareció ingeniosa u entretenida en comparación a lo que se acostumbra a ver en la literatura juvenilLa razón por la que no alcanza las 5 estrellas es porque tiene muy poco diálogo y eso hizo que no le agarrara tanto cariño a los personajes, no logré formar un apego emocional a ellos🥺
3180803590	I enjoyed this so, so much. Utterly unique, like all of Novik’s work, and a surprisingly concerted effort towards diversity in fantasy. I’d have liked to see some more, to be frank—no black characters in the book, as far as I could tell, or spells in Swahili or other prominent African languages?—but ideally Novik will expand more on this world in her sequel.
3898608814	This is an...I'm sorry I know I say this a lot...interesting book. Set up here is a (another?) magical school book. Only, with a twist.See if "you" are born with a magical gift (this would mean usually but not always to wizardly parents) then "the monsters" will want to eat you. As a matter of fact your parents need to be very vigilant for you not to get eaten. Of course this doesn't become a problem until you're maybe 9+ years of age. Before that you just don't have enough magic to make you tasty and nutritious enough for them. You know they need your magic. They don't bother to eat nonmagical kids.By the way, if you're a magical kid born to normal parents you're...well you're pretty much sure to get eaten.Anyway this being a less than desirable condition way back in the past a famous wizard came up with the idea that a school could be built where the monsters would have more trouble getting to the kids...This did not exactly work out as planned. The school is pretty much magically automated, there are NO teachers. Not only no teachers, but no custodians, no care takers...no adults at all. The kids who have inborn magic at the right age are simply magically swept up and teleported to the school...well the top ones. the school can only take so many kids. If you're not magical enough, well you take your chances with the monsters the old fashioned way.Anyway the school set up to seal out the monsters turned out to be very, leaky, the defenses very porous and the systems designed to wipe out (magically burn) the monsters occasionally, tend to break down. That's true especially in the graduation hall. So throughout the year the school tends to fill up with monsters that lurk, well everywhere. Going into a room or down a hall alone is not recommended. The kids tend to have a mortality rate of around 50%. And graduation is really bad as the graduation hall fills up with very hungry monsters and graduation amounts to fighting your way out of the school.So basically survivors graduate and it's sometimes (often) advantageous to throw you sister and brother students to said monsters...Anyway, there's more to it than that but you get the idea. pretty good read I can recommend it.Enjoy.
5702854281	I cannot coexist with the ending in peace. I need the second book immediately.she's grumpy, he's sunshine?? hogwarts but even deadlier?? literally the best ya protagonist ever??? hilarious writing style??? found family???? HUUUGE CLIFFHANGER ENDING??????yes yes yes yes yes yes
