1794065627	What a marvelous, delectable read! There was something so addictive about this book; it felt at times distinctly young adult while also having moments that felt so well done it was beyond the stereotype of what a teenage thriller tends to be. It’s taken me 4 days just to collect my thoughts to the point that I can attempt writing a proper review, and I’m certain this will be one of the most talked about books in the YA genre this Spring/Summer season. My issues with this book were minor, and I’ll get to those later, but when I first picked up this book I knew I would enjoy it based on the description stating “Breakfast Club meets Pretty Little Liars”, two things I love to pieces. While this was in some ways a traditional whodunnit, I believe many of the minor influences were the reason this novel reads so well.According the the books I’ve logged on Goodreads, I’ve managed to read over 700 mystery, thriller, and suspense novels. That is an overwhelming number of books that tend to be fiercely judged on their ability to provide a solid, mind-blowing twist. The reason I mention this is due to the fact that it is very difficult for me to pick up a mystery and not have it solved in the first 10% if the clues are provided; otherwise, I typically pick it up when said character is first introduced into the narrative. One of Us Is Lying is bound to be one of many fabulous novels that gets thrown into that category and is scrutinized solely by it’s ability to keep the reader guessing “whodunnit” until the big reveal. Again, I mention this because I think it would be a grave mistake for the reader to be so focused on this aspect when the book has so much more to offer! Personally, I had it figured out in the first chapter. As stated in the summary, the pieces are there for the reader to put together if they are clever enough. I applaud the author for her cleverness and storytelling abilities; there will be many readers who will be fooled by the red herrings and receive that glorious AHA moment at the big reveal. Why am I rambling on about this you ask? I really want to drive home the point of what makes this book stand out from others that are similar.The Characters. It is a rare day indeed that I find fleshed out, grounded, relatable characters that draw me in to a young adult narrative the way that these did here. My AHA moment may not have come during the big twist, but it certainly came in waves abounding throughout my experience journeying with these various high school kids. I was sure this would be another read with those stereotypical teenagers that give contemporary YA novels a bad rep; for crying out loud the stereotypes are printed on the inside of the book cover in the description! I think this was a clever move by the publisher and author; if other readers pull the same underestimation as I did, they will be more than pleasantly surprised at what they get out of this book. In referral to the wrapping up of characters and not the twist, the ending was one of the best I’ve seen in awhile. There is no gag worthy happily ever after where everyone is perfectly paired up in couples and they ride off into the sunset on their baby unicorns while the sun beats down on their pimple free faces…. No, while there are some upbeats moments, the ending is messy and real and I welcomed it whole heartedly. People made mistakes beyond the central narrative and there were consequences and some things were left open-ended in the way that makes you wonder what their eventual decisions lead to. I’m extremely pleased that the author chose to take some risky leeway with her writing direction and applaud her with a standing ovation.Alright, I said I would get to the minor issues and I kind of lied. Please don’t hate me, but there was a tiny aspect of this book that I thought I could get past, and even though I can’t discuss it outright (because these spoilers involve blowing the entire plot of the book), my conscience just wouldn’t let me finish this review without mentioning them in the broadest of terms. Again, I applaud the author for tackling some really tough issues and concerns in this book, and I don’t think she wrote anything wrong on her end. I think it’s more of an issue I’ve seen present itself across a wide number of YA books recently. Some who may be dealing with mental illness may perceive the outcome of this novel in an unrealistic way and I can see the possibility of various readers being split on their opinions of some of the content presented. I will say, I feel it was handled better in this book than in others I have read previously. As always, if you’ve read this book early or once you have a chance to read it and would like to discuss, please feel free to private message me and I’ll gladly have a respectful chat with you.This is a review I’ve been struggling to write for a few days now and I hope I’ve done it justice. There just aren’t words to describe how completely readable this book really is. McManus did such a fabulous job of making me just as interested in the individual secrets and side stories of the “Murder Club” as I was in the central mystery surrounding Simon’s death. The author had me convinced that this couldn’t possibly be her debut novel, and if this is what she has published first, I can only imagine the treats we will receive in written form from her down the road. I’m a committed fan now and I can’t wait to see what she publishes next. Highly recommended to teens, sure, but I think loads of adults are going to enjoy this one as well. There’s something really special and unique to this story that defies the boundaries of age gaps and will have me remembering it for months to come.*Many thanks to the publisher for providing my copy; it was a pleasure to post my honest thoughts here.
1978851295	** spoiler alert ** I feel like one of maybe four people in the world who just... really did not enjoy this book? I've been putting off this review for weeks because I just don't know where to start. I have so many friends who raved about this book to me, so I was so disappointed by it. These are only my opinions, and I would never dream of disrespecting anyone who disagrees with my review, so please show the same courtesy and don't hate me for what I'm about to say. ❤→ what i liked ←This is a very quick read; if I had enjoyed it, I'm sure I would've knocked it out in one sitting. As it was, it still felt like it moved pretty quickly. The main romance is fairly cute. Incredibly trope-y "goody-two-shoes smart girl falls for the brooding bad boy!" stuff, but, I mean, their interactions are fine, and I was rooting for them by the end of the book, which is a big plus. I would say I was more attached to the budding relationship between them than I was to any of the individual characters in this story.Nate, 'the criminal', is a very likable character. He's got a really dark and twisty back story that explains away a lot of his motives, and I definitely enjoyed his perspectives of the story the most. He just feels like a really authentic teen who's trying to muddle through a hard, screwed-up life, and I loved that about him. Whenever it was any other character's POV, I definitely found myself rushing to get back to his sections.→ what i didn't like ←This book is so problematic and most of it is NEVER challenged. First of all, can we talk about the immense amounts of slut-shaming? I could handle it if it was coming just from the characters and/or was actually being challenged consistently, but 1) it isn't challenged every time in the dialogue, and 2) the author contributes to the slut-shaming narrative regarding women cheating.We have two characters in the story who are cheaters; one is a female character, who does it one time, while drunk; the other is a male character, who carries on an emotional and physical affair for MONTHS. We spend a tremendous portion of the book focusing on the girl's one-night-stand, while the text literally does not ONCE actually name the boy for what he is: a cheater. There's no remorse shown, and there are no consequences whatsoever for him. It also seems kinda gross to me that the girl who's guilty of cheating is a "pretty, vapid, popular girl" type - can we please stop with these cliches?Also, can we please NOT make the only queer character in the cast a horrible character who cheats and hurts people? AND can we not make the character's coming-out scene a bigger twist than the actual murderer reveal? This book also does some serious vilifying of mental illness, but I won't get started on that rant.Beyond all of that... honestly, the writing is just not that good, and the "twist" is so predictable it hurts.→ final thoughts ←All in all... I almost hated this book. If it hadn't been for the quick pace and how much I enjoyed Nate, as well as his relationship with Bronwyn, I absolutely would have DNFed this. As it stands, I cannot in good conscience recommend this book, and I will probably not be picking up any future releases from this author.———twitter | booktok | bookstagram | blog
2176920713	‘Everybody’s got secrets,’ he says. ‘Right?’ THIS BOOK!! You guys, I thought this book was brilliant! So many great elements all thrown together. - murder mystery- high school drama- secrets, both big and small- suspicion I love a murder mystery anyway, but this one was made better as I cared about the 4 kids who were suspects. The star of the baseball team harbouring a huge secret. The Prom Queen who has never been able to find herself as a separate person from her long term boyfriend. The rebel with previous criminal convictions - the obvious suspect. The goodie two shoes. Surely she’s never broken the rules? All 4 end up in detention with Simon Kelleher, the guy who runs a gossip app that ruins reputations with its secrets. All four of them have a secret to hide and would do anything to keep it hidden. But at what cost? Because by the end of detention Simon is dead, but who did it? ‘Some people are just too toxic to live.’ I was absolutely addicted. I couldn’t put it down until I found out the answer. Plus there are so many tropes that get walked all over. My personal favourite THE GIRL WITH GLASSES GETS THE HOT GUY! This literally never happens in books or films so thank you Karen McManus for including this and not making her take them off ‘to be prettier’I loved Addy’s character development too. In the beginning she was just some jock’s girlfriend with no thoughts of her own. By the end of the book she really became her own person and I LOVED THAT. 5 stars ⭐️ for amazing characters, gripping writing, and a killer ending (see what I did there 😉) highly recommend!
3266278729	4.5 stars It concerns me you’re avoiding a promise not to murder me. One Monday afternoon, five teens walk into detention. Only four walk out. You find out who your real friends are when stuff like this happens. Turns out I didn’t have any… Simon, the school outcast, dies from a peanut reaction and considering the method he ingested the peanuts...the eyes of the world turn on the other four.Bronwyn, Addy, Nate and Cooper each have a secret that they are desperate to keep and they all swear that they are innocent. Unless one of us is lying. Which is always a possibility. So, who did it? Can you figure it out before the end? Things'll get worse before they get better. Soooo... I didn't figure it out, which was great BUT keep in mind I'm notoriously bad at picking apart mysteries. When I read the HP books for the first time, I went into each one fully expecting Harry to die by the end of it (Mind you, this was when I was 12...but still, the series was CALLED Harry Potter and the ______, and I was on book 2).The characters in this book were really well-done - each one was completely distinct and truly memorable. Every time I got to know one of them I started crossing my fingers that they weren't the murderer. And as their secrets were revealed, I was shocked time and time again.I don't read too many contemporaries but gosh-dang was I glued to this plot - the way the clues were revealed slowly and steadily. It was thrilling.While I had no idea who did what the entire book, that didn't ruin my enjoyment. I just sat back and went along for the ride and what a wild ride it was.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
2077277861	4 to 4.5 StarsEvery time I walk into the living room my wife is watching Pretty Little Liars or Revenge or Riverdale or Veronica Mars or . . . well, you get the idea. Sometimes I watch a bit with her. As I started this book I immediately thought “this book will be perfect for her – it’s the same type of thing”!So, if you like those shows, books like those shows, books those shows are based on, etc., then this is the book for you. While not the most complex mystery I have read, it is quite a bit of fun. Backstabbing rumors, questionable relationships, online gossip all combine to keep you engaged from page one to the Epilogue. There are no lulls or filler here!I voted on this book for the 2017 Goodreads Choice Awards while I was reading it (yeah, that’s right, I wasn’t done with it yet when I voted! Whatcha gonna do about it!? 😁). I stand by my vote – this is a pretty good selection for Young Adult Fiction. If you are a fan of that category, I don’t think you can go wrong. That is, unless you don’t like gossipy cat fights and brooding bad boys in love with nerdy girls . . . hey, if you don’t like those things, why are you even reading the review of a Young Adult book!?!?
2062113505	”Six hours and five minutes from then we were heading to detention. An hour later, he died.Seventeen years, gone just like that.”Six people A detention roomA cup of water1 teacher5 students4 students1 dead bodyThis is the recipe this book was made of and since I enjoyed solving the murder mystery I decided that I won’t go into detail all too much. This is the kind of book in which you get four POVs and have as much information as the characters that talk about the happenings. You have to guess with them, you have to experience what they see and you have to take all the pieces of their puzzle and try to solve it. ;-)So who’s the culprit? Whodunnit? Cooper Clay:Athlete, Mr. Clean, honourable and honest soul, rising star, likable guyBUT one hell of a secret that might eventually break his neckNate Macauley:Outsider, Drug dealer, black sheep, intelligent loner, on probation, sexy bad boyThe obvious culprit, right? ;-P Adelaide Prentiss:Yes person, follower, submissive, one of the “cool kids”BUT there’s a fire within her and it’s about to break outBronwyn Rojas:Geek, nice girl, respectable, compassionate and drivenSmart enough to plan the perfect murder? Every one of them has a secret, all of them would have had a reason to silence Simon.Yet, nothing ever is what it seems to be. All I’m saying is: Enjoy the ride and have fun guessing! ;-P__________________I wanted to read this book for ages so I was very glad when I went for my monthly blog meme and chose to “hug and read” it! I really dunno how long “One of Us is Lying” was already on my list but it feels like it’s been on my TBR forever. *lol* To be honest, I don’t even have a clue what it is about. I only know there’s supposed to be a murder and some sort of “Breakfast Club”? XDIt sounds promising enough though, so wish me luck! ;-P
2123297937	This is mostly Breakfast Club meets Riverdale crossover Heathers! It’s fast, entertaining, whodunnit reading. I took Olivia Pope menu during my reading (lots of popcorn and gallons of red wine)Now I’m all set for second book! Cheers🍷🍿bloginstagramfacebooktwitter
2081701666	3.75 A mystery/murder breakfast club!
2694641220	3.35/5 ⭐Full review on my Blog: The Dacian She-WolfHmm, okay so.“The Breakfast Club meets Pretty Little Liars” was somehow a fair description for the general, overall idea of this book in the beginning but then (thank god) it wasn’t entirely like that. Which I appreciate because, you know, I like sparks of differences here and there.Originality is sexy and it works even in small doses.This wasn’t entirely original, I think I’ve heard of some other handful of stories similar, but it was entertaining nonetheless.How does this work?Everyone wanted that bastard dead, he was spreading everyone’s dirty laundry on social media, not directly giving names, but accusing them of various things in a manner that I can only describe as petty and annoying. Like, I would’ve punched him in the mouth several times if I’d ever laid my eyes on him on the school hallways.But he’s dead so who cares anymore? Oh, yeah. Everyone.Of course, the four major suspects of this terrible, apocalyptical crime are part of four well-known high school stereotypes:- The geek;- The bad boy;- The princess;- The jock.I’m not even kidding, they’re for real and they form a group, deal with it.At first, I only cared about Bronwyn’s and Nate’s POVs, they seemed the most plausible of them all and I was rooting for them to be together, like seriously. They were completely adorable and, oddly enough, perfect for each other. As the story moved forward, I started warming up towards Addy and Cooper, respectively, with each chapter something about their lives being unravelled.Of course, they all have "sinned" at some point. And Simon had dirt on them all, the filthy gossip. Because of that, all four of them previously mentioned were suspects in this murder. Because they had motifs.On top of that, there were some school bullies picking up on them too. I am so glad I wasn’t in that high school at the same time as these four because I would’ve got expelled and possibly arrested for bitch-slapping hard some petty creatures. Why do bullies feel fulfilment out of being bullies? Doesn’t your tummy ache after being nasty like that?On the other hand – not a bright side – the answer to the tormenting question “Who is the killer?” is quite obvious so the mystery itself is not that strongly wrapped in unknown and delusion, which on my list is a weak point, but the good news is that the story is quite enjoyable so it kind of balances things out.Thank god for some other great characters too – characters such as Ashton and Maeve. Those girls are definitely sister-power and they rock. You go girls!Also, a shout-out to Kris, the real and only smart one here. Mystery solves thanks to Kris’s smart brain, you go Kris, you go!All in all, it wasn’t a bad book. It was good. Just a bit on the average side of a mystery with a side of ‘hmm I don’t like how things were left off at the end’. Because I didn’t. But oh well, we cannot have everything in life. But I’m still going to read the sequel!
2065648304	As a huge fan of "The Breakfast Club", I loved the concept of five characters with different personalities meeting in detention from the get go, and I'm incredibly happy to report that my high expectations were even exceeded! (By the way, besides the detention-concept, the story is completely different from "The Breakfast Club", so you don't need to fear that this is some cheap knockoff!)All the main characters get introduced within a few pages right at the beginning. I often find this rather problematic, as I easily get confused by many characters entering the scene at once, and I then have trouble telling them apart. This was not the case here! I surprisingly was able to tell them apart easily and developed a picture of them in my head right away. I fell in love with all of them and their different personalities. Besides the main plot, everyone has a personal and interesting storyline as well. They all live/lived through some not so nice things, but none of them play the victim. They have realistic views on their situations and aren't delusional. I was so happy about that! It often ticks me off when I see teenagers acting like little children in YA-novels, so it was nice to see something else for once.Actually, there were many opportunities to go down the typical YA-route, but thankfully that didn't happen. I was very (pleasantly) surprised at that! Sure, there were some (very) minimal cheesy scenes, but I (unexpectedly) found them rather cute, and not annoying and unnecessary like I usually do. There are also kept on a small scale, so the attention never drifts away from the main plot.All of the characters go through some personal growth throughout the book. This growth is done realistically; nothing is over the top or too unbelievable. My personal favorite was Addy - I truly had a soft spot for her! Her individual storyline and development is something so important. I was rooting for her the whole way through and was cheering her on at every step of the way. I'm sure that they are people reading this book who are in the same situation as her, and I really, really hope that their eyes might be opened with the help of Addy's portrayal.The title obviously keeps you guessing throughout. The level of suspense was perfect and I never knew who and what to trust and believe. I kept thinking about possible solutions even when I wasn't reading. I thought I had discovered every possible solution, but I was still surprised at the end!There is only one small thing I have to complain about: I would have liked a little bit more insight into Simon's life. But to be honest, I'm not even too bothered about this though, as all the fantastic things definitely outweigh this small issue.
2303899227	It sounds like the Breakfast Club with five teenagers, all from different groups, stuck together in detention. Yet things are off from the start, all of the kids claim that the cellphones that landed them there didn't belong to them. When one of them suddenly collapses from an anaphylactic attack, things get even stranger. Now Simon, the boy who had that anaphylactic attack, is dead and everyone in the room is a suspect when the tox screen comes back and it becomes clear that someone purposefully gave him peanut oil. Uh spoilers probably?? ok most likely I can't really shut up so. Anyway I really enjoyed this one. It reminded me of one of those CW shows, and like I've said before, that is something I'm totally into. I just totally felt like a teenager again while reading this, in a good way, and that was fun. I even liked the ending here and I'm usually pretty eh about endings most of the time. It was a happy ending but it also felt real enough that I wasn't vomiting from how amazing everything was. I can't stand saccharine sweet endings. I mean I wish Nick hadn't pushed Bronwyn away after he gets out of jail but it felt like a really consistent reaction when considering the rest of his behavior in the book. Also I really liked how each character's POV felt like an individual new person. I think a lot of times when authors have multiple POVs it feels like all the voices sort of blend together and sound too similar. And can I just say I really lobed Addy's growth as a character, like yes fuck your dick head boyfriend. Speaking of which the whole Jake thing was pretty fucked up. Once they started talking about Simon posting on 4chan on school shooting threads, I knew he set it up, but I totally didn't see the Jake thing coming. I also don't even know what to say about that because like what a huge fucking overreaction honestly, like just cause your girlfriend cheats on you doesn't mean you let someone who was your friend kill themselves and then frame her for it jesus fucking christ. I also saw a bunch of reviews about the portrayal about sexuality and mental illness, and I'm not trying to disqualify anyone else's opinions or feelings but personally I didn't find it consistent with my own reading of the book. I don't think the author ever really slut shames, like the villain is the one doing it and it's clearly not endorsed. Also the homophobia wasn't glorified either. The picture of mental illness it paints isnt that nuanced but this book reads like pretty little liars or something and I wasn't really expecting it to have some conversation inducing portrayals of those things. It plays up on the drama and stereotypes and I guess thats not enjoyable for everyone but I personally liked it and just read for the enjoyment aspect more than much else.
2637785951	2024 reviewA detention turns very much awry when one of the attendees is killed! The other students lives are completely shredded by the three heads of media, social media and school gossip/politics. It's not an Emmy wining script, but it's a wonderfully engaging mainstream (with a diverse cast of sorts) mystery adventure set smack bang in the modern digital world and of all things somehow having an in depth look at Western privilege (I told you not to read this review); the way we're told that we can have everything, that we deserve everything and if we don't achieve this we have failed at life! McManus wraps this is up in a super gripping mystery, only flawed, as so much other 'Young Adult' work by the inclusion of a key romantic story line, which still seems superfluous on my reread. But this book makes me care; up a point to 9 out of 12 firmer Four Stars!2018 reviewA smashing and superb debut novel by McManus that perfectly (from what I would guess). captures the modern High School in our digital world. A notorious gossip blogger gets detention with a jock, a cool girlfriend of another jock, a pretty nerd and the campus drug dealer - by the end of the detention one of them is dead - this book is about what happens next. The beauty of this book is how McManus sweeps aside stereotypes and tropes, and creates multifaceted and interesting main characters and also then applies that to the supporting cast. A must-read! ...because on top of all that, it is a truly absorbing mystery thriller. An easy 8 out of 12 Four Star read. 2024, 2021 and 2018 read
5952744711	˖ ( 💌 ) 6 stars – spoilers are marked ࣪ . ›⋆.˚ 𓏲 “unless one of us is lying. which is always a possibility.”‧ ₊ overall thoughts: ‧ ₊˚THIS BOOK!! the minute i picked this up i couldn't put it down but i forced myself to ... and then picked it up again! so fast-paced. i BINGED it. it was that good! 🤭✨ that being said, I. LOVED. THIS. BOOK!! i loved the murder mystery too! (view spoiler)[ And NATE AND BRONWYN ARE THE CUTESTTT (hide spoiler)] ⋆.˚ 𓏲 “i want to kiss her more than i want air.”‧ ₊ characters: ‧ ₊˚simon: why did he have to start that gossip app?? bronwyn: boss. i love this girl with all my heart i swear.addy: again, boss. and also i'm so happy she really contributed to solving this case. at first i actually hated addy but then towards the end of the book i started really liking her! nate: TOOK. MY. BREATH. AWAY. (view spoiler)[ (and bronwyn rojas's too) (hide spoiler)]cooper: OH MY GOD THE WAY HIS ACCENT SUDDENLY TURNS WEIRD WHEN HE'S NERVOUS! this man is so real for everything he did to help in this case (view spoiler)[ (and especially when he gave jake that punch to save addy COOPER'S THE BEST FOR THAT) (hide spoiler)]⋆.˚ 𓏲 “nate doesn't look at me, but his fingers thread through mine, warm and strong, resting against my shaking leg.”‧ ₊ favourite quotes: ‧ ₊˚— “bronwyn rojas, i solemnly swear not to murder you today or at any point in the future. deal?” “you're ridiculous,” she mutters, going even redder. “it concerns me you're avoiding a promise not to murder me.”— he reaches for my hand and squeezes it quickly before letting go, and i swear to god, actual sparks shoot across my skin. ... i finally let myself smile, and now that i've started, i can't stop. i catch his reflection in the backseat window and he can't either.⋆.˚ 𓏲 “things'll get worse before they get better.”‧ ₊ thoughts on the ending: ‧ ₊˚(view spoiler)[ at the end when nate and bronwyn broke up i was so mad and sad. literally NATE what was wrong with you why'd you break up with her????!!! and the fact that it actually turned out Simon did suicide was kind of disappointing as well because it just felt like everyone involved in solving the case went in a 200-something pages wild goose chase until that. and don't even get me started on jake. can't believe he did all that to addy. (hide spoiler)]
3818979571	~ 2 stars ~ This is definitely the type of book that the more you think of, the more resentment you will have towards it. The more problems that you will think of and the more you will question what you just read. I enjoyed it when I was reading, simply because of how fast I sped through it, but, was it really, truly, actually good? Upon further reflection prior to this review, ok going to have to say no. Summary: angsty teenage drama and whatnot. What I disliked:• the mystery aspect: It was so easy to guess who did it. Who killed Simon. It doesn't take a genius to figure it out. It was so heavy handed and obvious with the clues and in your face. It tried to take focus and incriminate other people, because everyone hAtEs ThiS cHaRacTeR, but it did so in such a weak way, that I didn't even consider anything else other than what was true. But really, for a murder mystery book, there wasn't enough mystery. And then there was a big reveal, and while I was interested in how the feat was accomplished, the reveal itself was so anti climactic. I wasn't on my toes, I wasn't speculating and doubting everyone (as I should be), and jumping between theories. I simply wasn't blown away by the end, which is what I want when I'm reading a mystery book. I want for the plot twist to be shocking, but not so preposterous that I cannot look back and fit together the pieces. I had known who the perpetrator was the for the majority of the book, and even then I hoped for it to not be true, that it wouldn't take the easy and cheap route, but it sadly ended up doing just that, as I feared it would.• the characters: I liked Bronwyn and Nate enough to stay I didn't hate them. Not Addy and Cooper though. They were laughable and Addy's whole empowering story line was corny. Also, you're not going to catch me uplifting a bunch of cheaters. And everyone else didn't have a prominent personality and I didn't care for them. • double standards: Back to the cheating thing. When the character that is a girl cheats ok her partner, it's presented in a way where she is obviously in the wrong, but when the male character cheats, his situation is presented in a sympathetic way. As if he had no other choice. The girl cheats once, but the boy cheats for months on end, and it isn't even refered to as cheating. Not that it really matters, they are both in the wrong, but it seems worth mentioning to difference in treatment and how it was written.• romance: I thought it was tolerable, but instead of being a sub plot, it had a big focus on it and I feel as if it may have taken away from the actual story. Why did I end up caring about this romance more than the main conflict?? Though the way things played out with the romance, I didn't like (see summary).• mental illness rep: Nope nope nope. Let's please not use mental illness as a motive or in such a degrading way. _____ is depressed, and using that as something to explain why a person did something horrible, is not something I ever want to read. Villainizing all the characters with mental illnesses and degrading them to just that, is an automatic no for me. This probably doesn't make any sense because I don't know how to put my feelings into words especially without context, but if you know you know I suppose. • The ending: Horrible. The last quarter was so bad, and just ruined the entire book. I'm just going to pretend it never happened. Final Thoughts: I thought this could have done a lot with the concept, but it took the easy route and did a lot of annoying things on the way. I could have loved this, but instead ended up being immensely disappointed. It was predictable, and that made the entire journey have no meaning. Good concept, weak executionLet's hope the next mystery I read is better. I'm still contemplating whether to read the sequel or not, as it seems useless, but I might if I have nothing better to read?
4388459254	I won't spend too long complaining about this. I don't get the hype, but then books like this-- clearly aimed at a younger teen audience --were not really written for me, were they?I found this a very basic murder mystery with one-dimensional characters and a predictable conclusion. None of the main cast stood out as memorable to me and I found their dialogue and actions often leaning towards cliche.I don't often complain about writing. Or, well, if I do then it's usually criticising overly flowery metaphor-laden prose, not simplicity. But here I really did find the writing quite juvenile. Which, of course, is fine if it's aimed at middle-schoolers, but given some of the themes in this one (sex, drugs and depression, to name a few) I suspect that wasn't the case(?)My lack of connection to the characters, among other things, made it a boring read.
2135564730	detective jessica, human lie detector, reporting for duty!i got to the bottom of this and figured it out pretty easily early on, but that didnt detract from the story in the slightest. initially, i was worried this was going to be too much like the breakfast club meets murder she wrote but, other than the student stereotypes, this wasnt like that at all and i was so glad.i loved how entertaining this was. i appreciated the little twists and turns, here and there, that kept me on my toes whilst i was so focused on the big end reveal. i also thought this was especially impressive for a debut - stories like this are pretty common, so it quite ambitious to try to make it your own, but i thought mcmanus nailed this. it had great pacing, solid writing, an engaging plot, and interesting characters. and i also now have a new book boyfriend in the form of nate, so thats always a bonus! i cant wait to see what kind of books mcmanus writes next! hopefully its more of this, please and thank you!↠ 4 stars
2179704353	Recently, I started watching How to Get Away with Murder. Because I am totally untrendy and if by some trick of nature I am somehow participating in something that people at large appreciate, I must do so four years too late in order to keep the world running and not break fundamental laws of world operation, probably.It’s a very entertaining show! Twisty and turny. Very dark. I’ve gasped a few times. Viola Davis is a national treasure.That show is a lot better than this book.It, like this book, follows a group of young people and a murder, and mystery surrounding that murder. It, too, involves steamy romance and social media and endless drama.But it’s just totally, full-on better at doing all of it. There’s no avoiding it.That’s not to say that this book isn’t good! It is. Or at least it isn’t bad.Here’s the thing. It’s the watered-down, YA version of How to Get Away with Murder. Some people prefer those versions! And that’s okay.If you liked Warcross better than Ready Player One. If you’re more interested in Pretty Little Liars and Riverdale than Mindhunter or Making a Murderer. It’s fine if you are! They’re just two totally different things.YA murder stuff is frothier. There are YA requisites it has to meet: budding romance; groups of friends; high school drama; usually some sort of impending-future college-slash-career-goals plotline.It all depends if you want a side of fluff with your murder mystery.I, personally, don’t. Give me darkness and thrills and creeps and gore. Do not give me baseball drama and romantic miscommunication and phones getting taken away, please. I’m not interested.But as far as that goes, this book was pretty good at it. It, at the very least, incorporated the drama into the murder and the motive. The ending was predictable, yes, and sort of messy really, and definitely not creepy or shocking or the things I really want, but it was unique and somewhat creative.This whole shindig, actually, was much more unique and creative than I expected. I really didn’t not enjoy it, even though I’ve been so busy trying to lock down the “Most Pretentious Person Alive” award while writing this that I may not have had the time to convey that.I think it’s that I just finished You by Caroline Kepnes. And that’s really just a much better book than this. Unfair standard, though. Bottom line: If you want young adult sh*t in your thriller and not just thrills, this book is perfect for you. If you’re here for the thrills, there are way, way, way better choices.
1981731033	"Everybody's got secrets," he says. "Right?" This book was a pleasant surprise! It was refreshing and a change from the usual young-adult contemporary. Bronwyn, Nate, Cooper, and Addy are suspects for murdering the school's gossiper, Simon. When the 5 of them were in detention, the last thing they expect is for Simon to drop dead... Unless one of them planned the whole thing. The story is told from their POVs. The nerd, the bad boy, the jock, and the princess are the most common high school stereotypes. Until you start to see they're more than that. Bronwyn has the highest grades, Nate was (is?) a drug dealer, Cooper is the best baseball player in school, and Addy is used to being popular, true, but these are more than their just titles. Soon, you sympathize with them but at the same time, you can't neglect anything they do/think. Everyone has secrets that they'll do anything to not let them see the light, but at what cost? Everyone is flawed. We see them transform from one-dimensional characters to teens with more developed personalities as they try to deal with everything. Bronwyn and Nate's chapter were my favorites, although I have to admit how much Addy grew on me. Cooper's were fun. Most important of all, they're real .Even though the mystery wasn't hard to figure out, it was still fun. I'm sure it's because we're seeing the bigger picture, everyone had a piece of the truth. Yet, you can't help but feel skeptical, I shouldn't like this character, he looks innocent but what if ?One of the things I liked is how this book relies on social media, something many books set in our days ignore. It's not logical, social media is a part of everybody's life. I liked how Karen used it to create a good story. How our lives, privacy, secrets are violated. How it's so easy to uncover anything. This was a quick read, even if I have to admit that it stretched a bit too much eventually. It was fun and a page turner. I highly recommend if you're looking for something new in the YA contemporary genre. It has a bit of everything, even a little romance.This book would make a great movie! Karen M. McManus did a great job for a debut, I'm already looking forward to reading her future books. arc provided via NetGalley.
3826481423	One of us is lying aka one of these persons that are all walking highschool drama tropes is lying but we got no clues. so ehm. (view spoiler)[and they are actually not lying because none of them did it because fucking simon killed himself and his suicide is used as a plot twist in a murder mystery because yay suicide is a plottwist oh and he wanted too ruin other people their lives because he wanted too kill him self and was depressed DEPRESSION ISNT LIKE THAT , SUICIDE ISNT LIKE THIS i hate this and i am just so mad about the way this book handles those things. but anyway this title is a lie , as none of them are lying. (hide spoiler)]PIECE OF TRASH. Ew1 star , and i almost never give one star. Ew this was poopy and i am mad. Mental health is here used in a pathetic unrealistic and harmfull way for people who do live with mental health issues like me. like no just no. this is just twisted in my opinion too use it like this. I HATE THIS BOOk. So yes hello welcome too this rant revieuw of One of these persons that are all walking highschool drama tropes is lying Okay so i respect the author and this is no hate towards the author. The feelings and thoughts i will be discussing in this revieuw are just my opinions on this book and my thoughts. as we can all have opinions right? [ oh no wait opinions ew. dont have opinions ] So this book was just stupid. This entire book didnt even feel like a murder mystery too me. It felt like a high school drama book filled with stupid tropes and a stupid trope romance. We have four main charracter who each have their own point of vieuw which i will be telling you about later and one day these walking tropes , i mean people are in detention with another guy , simon. and suddenly simon dies because he had drinked water with peanut oil in it and he is allergic too peanut oil and then the police is going too investigate it as a murder and these 4 walking tropes are subjects and one of them is lying (view spoiler)[but actually not because no one was lying because we got our lovely suicide plot twist. * pukes in a corner* (hide spoiler)] and that is the plot. For the murder , its just so stupid dying because of peanut oil like WHAT. i honestly laughed when that happend because it wasnt scary it was just funny. i exepected this too be a brutal murder but no it isnt. its just peanut oil. the rest of the book feels more like highschool drama with an important focus on the romance which was stupid and i didnt care about and was one big '' nerdy girl falls in love with bad boy with no personality and he thinks she is pretty when she puts off her glases and wears her hair lose instead of in a ponytail LIKE excuse me ? so wearing your hair in a ponytail and wearing glasses makes a person ugly and a nerd. well thanks. so yes this felt more like highschool drama as we get this phone website app that is basically gossip girl 2.0 that spreads rumours, we got immature people who fight all the time , we got cheating and that sort of stuff. It just wasnt much murder mystery and the murder mystery there is is boring and not intresting for me. then lets talk walking tropes aka the charracters in this book and why i dislike them - Browyn aka the nerdy trope girl who is only pretty when she doesnt have her glasses on. Who has cheated on one exam and thats the biggerst mistake she has ever made and her life is ruined. ok browyn join the cheater club. oh and then falls in love with bad boy with no personlaity bedsides bad boy with poor home situation nate. and suddenly they love eachother. - Nate aka the bad boy trope with no other personality besides that. who thinks Browyn is pretty when he doesnt wears her glasses ok. - Cooper our golden football boy who is actually gay :o plottwist because sexual prefference and (view spoiler)[suicide (hide spoiler)] are used as plot twistst in this book. way too go. - Addy addy the girl who has no personality at all and the only personality she has is her boyfriend Jack who controls her entire life. then he dumps her she cries and then gets a hair cut because of course every girl that gets dumped and is in a crisis gets a hiarcut and is suddenly independent. kill me please. these tropes all killed me. stupid highschool stuff.So yes those are our walking tropes. i feel like the author wanted too use these tropes and wanted too turn them intoo something deeper but it just didnt work for me and they kept being walking tropes. it just didnt work. The romance between Nate and Browyn is also one big trope and i coudnt care less about them and they where pretty much the main focus on this book even tho its supposed too be a murder mystery. also the murder mystery in this book was just weird. because we dont get any clues so we coudnt guess. also because you are in all 4 of the walking tropes their head it cant be one of them right? because then they would think about the murder which makes this book predictable for its stupid twist. that last but not least maybe even the most annoying thing about this book which i just despise the ending (view spoiler)[So Simon killed himself. he killed himself. i guess it and i was right and it makes me so mad and it is so stupid. suicide gets made intoo a plot twist in this book and is here shown in a really unrealistic not sensitive way foor the enjoyment of the reader which i despise. i live with mental health and i thought about suicide in my life and the way i know it and i know from other real people it isnt like this and books like this and shows like 13 reasons why just make it out too be like this. they make it out too be something that people do too make other people feel bad and get the blame because they where mean towards them even tho simon himself is fucking gossiping all the fucking time on this stupid app. like this is just insane. oh he was depressed he killed himself plot twist. its just disgusting how suicide and depression is being used in this book. those kinda things are just not for me thats also why i hate 13 reasons why people dont kill themselves too then after blame other people and make it one big happening. also no one literally no one would do what jake did like wtf. this ending is just stupid and disrespectfull towards suicide and actual depression. (hide spoiler)]Overall i was just annoyed by this book. especially its ending and all these tropes and all the highschool drama. maybe this book is great for people who just want some entertainment and nothing with much depht then i would reccomend. but if you are looking for a good murder mystery that is scary and full of clues i would not pick this up and rather pick up a good girls guide too murder. I just really did not like this.Krizzies rant is over bye now. thanks for reading. i will now continue being usly because i wear my hair in a ponytail or bun all day !!! special mention too my saltyyy sophia it was very nice discussing this stupid book with you. and throw in the trash together.
1897061694	First Read: April 2017, Rating: 4 starsSecond Read: November 2020, Rating: 4 starsAfter a typical day in a typical American high school, five teenagers enter detention but only four make it out alive. Simon, notorious due to his gossip-style blog that revealed all the dark and dirty secrets his fellow students never thought would see the light of day, had made many enemies. But which one would want to see him dead? Which one of them is lying?The multiple perspectives all provided their own angle to the plot. These all pulled together, towards the end, to turn their individual stories into one cohesive whole. Each dirty secret that was uncovered made each character less of a walking stereotype and more of a flawed, and therefore real, individual. I will admit that when I first was introduced to this cast of characters - the overachiever, the bad boy, the jock, and the popular girl - I had assumed these were going to be nothing more than a set of weakly constructed and overused cardboard characters. How wrong could I be?The actual plot was a thrilling and interesting one, but it was the characters who circled it that really compelled me to keep reading. I admit that I figured out part of the mystery pretty quickly, but this didn't detract from my enjoyment in any way, purely because the characters. With their flaws and their individual insights they continued to interest me, and made this a very real and very suspenseful read.I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Karen M. McManus, and the publisher, Delacorte Press, for this opportunity.
1909249643	Thank you PRHAudio for the complimentary audiobook!Excellent audiobook! Great reread. Feels like the first time I read it since it has been awhile and I forgot a lot about the story. I enjoyed it a lot. I liked all of the characters. The narrators did a good job and I got teary eyed. I can't wait to watch the Netflix shows. ----------////-----About: One of Us is Lying is a young adult thriller written by Karen M. McManus. It was published on 5/30/17 by Delacorte Press, an imprint of Random House, 368 pages. The genres are young adult, contemporary, thriller, and mystery. It is intended for readers ages 14 and up, grades 9 and up. This book is the author’s debut. My Experience: I started reading One of Us is Lying on 9/13/17 and finished it on 9/16/17 at 1am. This book is an excellent read! I couldn’t put it down! This book wakes me up at 4AM and nudges me to read more even though I had to force myself to put it down at 11:15pm earlier to sleep. I love the stories of the individuals and the pace the secrets are being revealed. Their individual lives are interesting to read. I enjoyed the plot and the characters a lot! I really like probation officer Lopez and her always looking at the bright side. I like Addy’s sister Ashton. I like how she encourages Addy to move on.This book is told in the first person point of view, starting out with 5 students meeting each other at the high school’s detention room. They all believed they were being set up. The school has a no cell phone policy in the classroom and each of them were caught with a cell phone in class. The five are Nate Macauley who has been in trouble with dealing drugs, Bronwyn is the nerd in the school who had to skip her mathlete to attend detention, Addy Prentiss is the homecoming princess who doesn’t make her own decisions, Cooper Clay is the baseball star at the school, and Simon Kelleher who is a creator of the gossip app called About That. All the students in the school either feared or hated Simon because he exposes their secrets on About That. The secrets are known to be truth even without proof. Few minutes into detention, 4 students walked out of the classroom and 1 was driven away by an ambulance. Police investigation reveals that Simon was targeted one day before he was to post on About That an entry that will expose all 4 students’ deepest secrets. This concludes that all 4 students has motive to hurt Simon.This book is very well written and easy to read. I love the diversity of each character and their individual backstory. I feel sad for Nate’s childhood. I like Addy’s story because it exposes how women can lose themselves when they rely on their men too much. I used to be jealous of those girls with boyfriends like Jake who treats Addy like a queen, but after reading this book, I’m not jealous anymore haha.. Maybe it’s better I buy what I like for my birthday instead of getting what the guy chooses haha.. Cooper’s view is interesting and he’s so mysterious with his secret. Bronwyn’s view is okay. Her secret is not even that bad. I was thinking she did something worse. I love the humor in this book as well as the fast paced. I highly recommend everyone to read this book! It’s definitely a fun thriller to read!Pro: cover, diversity, fast paced, page turner, couldn’t put down, suspense, secrets, humor, adrenaline rush, romanceCon: noneI rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: I borrowed this ebook from my library and my opinions are honest.xoxo, Jasmine at www.howusefulitis.wordpress.com for a detailed review
2078560811	5 Stars!“Unless one of us is lying. Which is always a possibility.”Oh me oh my, this book was not what I expected at all.I hadn't looked into the plot too much so I was going in half blind in a way.I was thinking this would be The Breakfast Club 2.0. But I was wrong.I thought this was going to be yet another YA Contemporary novel with predictable plots.But I was wrong.This book was so gripping and I flew through the pages like it was no tomorrow.From start to finish I was on the edge of my seat and trying to figure out the murder like a was on an episode of Law and Order.And if I'm going to toot my own horn here, I figured out who the culprit was around the half way mark.Detective Taylor, at your service. But in saying that, the way the plot was constructed still left me surprised by the end of the book.So sneaky...I will mention that this story heavily focuses around harassment, mental abuse and homophobia.So if you're quite sensitive around these topics, just be mindful. I try and make all my reviews spoiler free as it's just easier for review purposes (who am I kidding? I'm just lazy lol) So I won't go into too much detail.But the story focuses heavily on 4 Students:Bronwyn, Cooper, Nate and Addy. And like the Breakfast club, they are all completely different students but unlike The Breakfast Club, they turn to each other for support because they have all been involved in a murder they have just witnessed together.And let me just say, these students were so fantastic.“I guess we're almost friends now, or as friendly as you can get when you're not one hundred percent sure the other person isn't framing you for murder.” I really connected with them and my heart got heavy for them in so many ways.I was angry, upset, excited and felt that I was going to burst into confetti at any given moment.I think Karen M. McManus did a fantastic job with this book.The style of writing, the plot with all the twist and turns that left me guessing in most parts, was just SO GOOD MAN!Kudos to you, Karen! I'll be thinking about this book (especially the ending because fuck man, I almost died. Twice.) and will pick this book up again in the future.So if you're yet to read this and in the mood for a bit of teenage mystery. Pick it up. You'll thank me later...
5052393333	wow this was very boring. i don’t think i’ve been this disinterested in a mystery book in like … ever. was it predictable? yes. a little. it was like my first guess. i still entertained other ideas as the book went on. but i kept going back to the same suspect. im taking that as a win for myself. i honestly was zoning in and out as i was going through this i cant lie. it wasn’t keeping my attention. the characters did not appeal to me in any way. they were quite one dimensional. the romance felt like it took up a huge part of the story, but i didn’t care for it at all. i could have gone without it. they bored me.the “reveals” were all anticlimactic. even the death scene wasn’t delivering. it was not that interesting at any point. i just wanted the book to be over the whole time and thankfully im free of it.
2447042255	5 Students walk into detention. A few minutes later 1 of them is dead. Who killed Simon? I've been wanting to read One of Us is Lying for awhile now. I am a hug fan of tv shows like Riverdale and Pretty Little Liars and teen movies like Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, Mean Girls, Can't Buy Me Love, Scream, etc. I could go on & on. It's pretty bad - I can't flip through the channels and see any of those on without watching. Therefore, it's no surprise that this book seemed like a perfect fit for me. I'm not even sure why it took me this long to read it. One of Us is Lying isn't a very complex mystery. I had it figured out from the beginning. Well, admittedly I can't say I had all the angles completely figured out but the main twist - I called it right from Ch.1. Usually, that would ruin things for me but this time I didn't even mind it. I knew what I was getting into with this YA mystery and I was definitely along for the entire ride. ;) This book was better than a daytime soap opera! Seriously, EVERYONE was lying or hiding something from everyone else. Yet, I genuinely cared about these kids. These 4 SUSPECTS - they captured my heart. I loved how they grew throughout the story. Addy - who I found spineless and whiny in the beginning completely won me over by the end. I was literally cheering her on - OUT LOUD! Nate - who doesn't love the misunderstood, brooding bad boy rebel! What's not to love about sweet as Pie Cooper? Finally, Bronwyn a.k.a Miss Goody-two-shoes reminded me of me. Obviously she was my fave! I enjoyed watching these 4 form an unlikely alliance and band together to figure out what really happened. Here's the thing - even though I had the whodunnit mostly figured out, there was a twist that I hadn't seen coming. That made reading the book even better than I initially expected. Is the book a bit cliche? Yes, but that's what makes it fun & a bit nostalgic. Does it depend on stereotypical characters? Yes, but don't they often do that? I felt like these characters showed growth from beginning to end which you don't often get to see in YA mysteries. What some might see as negatives I saw as positives for this book. It was fun, nostalgic, engaging and extremely readable. It held my interest from beginning to end.
2002656187	too lazy to find a gif for what i'm feeling so i'll leave you with a word to sum it up: MEHhere's the deal: if you're going to write a book that is unrealistic, please COMMIT TO IT.the ending was just sorely disappointing for me. i pretty much knew/suspected who the killer was the entire time and i'm dumb as a box of rocks when it comes to figuring out 'who dun it' in thrillers. and even if the ending is predictable, you can make it creepy. you can make me feel things.this one just didn't do that. it half assedly committed itself to being a teaching moment rather than sticking to the fun, PLL camp that like 80% of this book was about.that isn't to say that this sucked. i thoroughly enjoyed how the characters came together to solve the murder. i liked the relationship that developed between two of the characters... honestly to the point where that was what i was looking forward to thru the majority of the book. and i think the way the crime was committed, all the moving parts, was pretty interesting.but again, so. much. build up. for something that was just thoroughly blah to me. if you're looking for something suspenseful and different, skip it. if you like mild high school drama and after school special "life lessons" give it a go.
2022744105	I loooooved and devoured this book!Once I started this book it was very hard to put down. Five high school students end up in detention one day, one of them does not make it out alive and we are left with the questions about what happened, who did it and why. The plot is told from the different points of views of each of the four students that survived detention and the journey and unraveling of this mystery was awesome. It was fun, cute, suspenseful and overall great!
1997955229	The Breakfast Club meets Pretty Little Liars, One of Us Is Lying is the story of what happens when five strangers walk into detention and only four walk out alive. Everyone is a suspect, and everyone has something to hide. Pay close attention and you might solve this.yeah, thanks, i did. along with I'm Thinking of Ending Things and The Woman in the Window, this book is part of the series i am now calling “illness made me psychic!”i figured out the “whodunnit” almost immediately. which was kind of a drag, but since i was weak as a kitten with fever, and was only reading this to distract myself from the heap of sweaty mucous i’d become, it was a perfectly suitable bit of escapism that did exactly what i needed it to do. it's a fun book, but it's got very soft edges. it's not one of the books making up this exciting new breed of YA which is more or less indistinguishable from adult fiction in approach and content. this one is very teen-y; the characters are stock cliches with interchangeable voices and there are sharp us/them lines drawn between the teen and adult characters; the police and teachers are too dumb and incompetent to figure things out, but teens to the rescue! again, nothing wrong with it, it’s just very much on the light side. it’s… Riverdale-y. although i will say that these characters are more recognizably teenagers than those on Riverdale. seriously, why is veronica demanding business consultation privileges? is this Empire? (note to self: you may be watching too much teevee)overall, it’s fun and unchallenging, and even though it wasn’t hiding its secrets well, i do not regret reading it. and i will say that bronwyn's haircut scene is awesome, even though she is no molly ringwald. but in terms of sense-making, can someone answer this for me? (view spoiler)[if the whole point of killing simon was, ostensibly, to prevent him from posting the stories about the rest of the breakfast club, why would the killer then post them, thereby revealing information they had supposedly taken such great pains to keep secret? and - duh, i know that question is moot because of what *actually* happened, but i’m asking as a purely strategic move, as a part of the master plan. doesn’t the posting of the seeecrets take the scrutiny off of the other kids and point the finger elsewhere? especially considering that clumsy cellphone plant? doesn’t it seem fishy, that a teenager would kill another teenager in order to keep their secret and then be all, “hey, world, here’s my dirty secret after all, LOL! sorry i killed you, simon. my bad.” isn’t this a question the police should have wondered? (hide spoiler)]but don't let this change your mind if you are all about reading this one - many people adore it and i'm just some heap of sweaty mucous. but a psychic heap of sweaty mucous, which is better than nothing.come to my blog!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1996939390	5 suspicious Stars 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Please ignore all comparisons of this book to The Breakfast Club.... and go into this book with an open mind....The only similarity to this book and that fabulous 80s movie is these five very stereotyped teenagers spend some time in detention together... this is where the similarities end.... and I mean this in a good way.... I really enjoyed this book.... Loved all these characters..... and I really wanted them all to be innocent.... it was fun and interesting to see all the character growth in all of them stemming from this tragedy..... they all had secrets to hide, but ultimately I think they found strength in each other.... I really don’t want to say too much... but I didn’t see the end coming until quite late in the book.... and it still surprise me some....Absolutely recommend whether you are a fan of young adult or not.... any age this is a fabulous book filled with wonderful characters and twists and turns..... Who is lying?
1949490253	Five go to detention. Four come out alive.Simon: Is basically gossip girl without the secret identityBroneyn: Nerdy girl with a rich familyNate: Has a reputation and a criminal recordCooper: The baseball player with more scholarships to countAddy: Has the perfect boyfriend and life ahead of herLet me try that again:Simon: Who is tired of never being accepted by the popular crowdBroneyn: Who’s only goal is to get into Yale and will do anything to get thereNate: Who always takes the hit of anything because of his pastCooper: Who has a bar to make but a secret that could limit his reachAddy: Who doesn’t have a personality without her boyfriendI absolutely loved this.This was written amazingly. I kind of saw how that would end. Like why the person was killed and why he did it, but it didn’t make it less enjoyable. There were so many webs being weaved and it was just so captivating. Addy and Cooper were my absolute favorites.If you are looking for a drama-filled, murder mystery set in high school that’s got romance and rebellion and secrets beyond reason: you’ve found your book.---I CALLED IT. BUT THIS WAS SO GOOD. RTC. AHH.
4884906592	4 stars!!!I can finally now watch the show but oh my gosh. Right from the beginning I was hooked and trying to figure out what everyone’s secrets are and who the murderer is. I love being able to use my brain and really predict what could happen. It makes my brain tingle and here it happened again and yes the foreshadowing was there to the final plottwist and at some point I did see it but not before having a few false predictions. I am excited for the sequel
2058205608	Like what you see?More of my reviews can be found at www.thecuriousadventuresofkat.wordpre... Oh what a tangled web we weave.When first we practice to deceive. And oh, what a tangled web we have here. But first, I gotta say Karen McManus’ One of Us Is Lying legit gave me so many Pretty Little Liars feels it’s ridiculous. I mean, just look at the title alone. Anyone else find themselves singing the Pretty Little Liars theme song whenever you glanced at the cover? Just me? “One of us is lying and one of us is dead.” Not the exact words, but it fits this story. So. Unbelievably. Well. More seriously, One of Us Is Lying is uncannily similar to Sara Shepard’s blockbuster series. Both plots thematically center around deception. The lies we tell others and the lies we tell ourselves. And how those itty bitty untruths shield us from a reality we’re too scared to confront. In One of Us Is Lying, each of our four main characters is hiding a secret they fear will shatter their meticulously constructed personas. We’ve got Bronwyn, the brain; Addy, the perfect homecoming princess; Nate, the criminal; and Cooper, the all-star baseball player. They’re joined in detention by Simon, creator of the school’s infamous gossip app. Five high-schoolers in detention. Sounds like a pretty standard premise, right? WRONG. When detention ends, five students exit but only ONE leaves in a body bag. Simon dies of a fatal allergic reaction to peanut oil planted in his drinking cup. Rumor has it, the following day Simon planned to reveal each of our protagonists' deepest, darkest secrets. All four students wanted Simon gone. All four students are hiding something. But only one is a killer. BUM, BUM, BUM. To recap: basically, we’re looking at a mashup of PLL and Gossip Girl with a dash of The Breakfast Club. But fear not: this is no pale imitation, instead One of Us Is Lying is an intelligent, fully-realized thriller in its own right.And oh, what a thriller it is. To say this book is compelling is a vast understatement. One of Us Is Lying is unputdownable. Thoroughly addicting. The story benefits greatly from employing alternating narrators. Sections are short affording the book an unrelenting, brisk pace. And yes, I was THAT girl in the movie theater feverishly reading until the film’s opening sequence. But a fast-paced plot is only part of the book’s appeal. Really, it’s the characters that distinguish One of Us Is Lying from its contemporaries. While initially the students seem straight from a John Hughes flick (a point humorously referenced in the story), One of Us Is Lying diverts expectation by endowing each teenager an actual personality. Layers for MILES. Karen McManus delves into the recesses of her protagonists’ brains, reveling in their complexity. Plot and character are equally developed and prized. Ultimately each student is transformed by the book’s events. Here, it’s not just about the whodunnit, but how the whodunnit affects individual people. Think Tana French for the Bieber generation.I really can’t say enough good things about this book. One of my (useless) skills is correctly guessing a story’s whodunit. And while I prize this talent, it can make reading mysteries a predictable enterprise. But One of Us Is Lying stumped even me. I was shocked at the denouement. A rare occurrence. One drawback: there is a tad too much exposition when the Big Bad is revealed. However that’s a feature even the great Agatha Christie failed to avoid. To sum up: well-rounded characters, an intriguing plotline, and effective prose. I can’t wait to see what Karen McManus does next. Highly recommend.
2935651154	“I know what it's like to tell yourself a lie so often that it becomes the truth”.Normalmente no soy muy fan de los thrillers, pero debo confesar que One Of Us Is Lying me enganchó y me lo devoré en dos días, sobre todo porque tenía muchas vibes de Gossip Girl.Aquí resulta que Bronwyn, Nate, Addy y Cooper terminan castigados por llevar el celular a la clase de un profesor que es anti-tecnología. Cuando van a detención, ven que allí también está Simon, el creador de un blog de rumores tipo Gossip Girl que todo el mundo odia. En medio del castigo, algo extraño le sucede a Simon y muere unas horas después. Ahora, la policía empezará a investigar a los otros cuatro chicos porque estaban en el momento en el que Simon fue envenenado y, además, porque descubren que las siguientes entradas de su blog iban a ser sobre ellos. Más allá de la resolución de quién era el asesino, que igual fue bastante interesante, lo que más me gustó de One Of Us Is Lying fue el desarrollo de las personalidades de los personajes bajo presión. A pesar de que eran chicos que no hablaban mucho entre ellos, las circunstancias los obligan a acercarse y empezar a conocer a los otros. Todos esconden secretos y tienen pasados escondidos que les gustaría que se quedaran en la oscuridad, pero la verdad va saliendo poco a poco a la luz y los va volviendo personajes increíbles. Otro punto positivo es que siento que la autora supo manejar muy bien las múltiples perspectivas para aumentar lo máximo posible la atmósfera de misterio y dudas. A pesar de que los cuatro sospechosos se acercan unos a otros, es imposible para ellos confiar plenamente, pues alguno de ellos tuvo que ser el asesino... ¿o no? También me gustó que Karen M. McManus supo jugar muy bien con aquello de que las emociones se exaltan muchísimo en situaciones extremas, así que en este libro tampoco falta una subtrama romántica y muy dramática. Creo que el final fue bastante sorprendente y muy bien fundamentado, dado todo lo que se ve en las noticias de USA por estos días.
2164518629	ACTUAL RATINGS 2.5/5Everything was so darn stereotyped and predictable, especially the ending (meh) and the whole who-killed-who/who-did-what thing left me completely unsatisfied because I foresaw the ending way before the author attempted to plant the seed of doubt on my mind. I weirdly didn't hate any character, though, and it was quick enough to find it almost entertaining, that's why I'm rounding up these two stars by an extra half. I think I'd like it better if it was a movie.
1898486041	Another pretty much one sitting read for me and an EASY 5*I loved this - clever, often tense, addictive to the ninth degree and with as many twists as a plethora of pretzels - except the twists don't always come within the mystery but just as often within the characters.So this is The Breakfast Club if The Breakfast Club was a murder mystery. That is the best way I can describe it (and for those of an age to appreciate the true genius of The Breakfast Club the highest compliment I can give it) 5 students enter detention only 4 come out alive. But what happened to them? Murder? Accident? And who were they? Victim? Undeserved of their fate? And most of all, who hated them enough to want to see them dead? Well all of those questions will eventually get answered but before that we have a genius of a novel, brilliantly insightful storytelling that starts with a group of teenagers who have easy labels applied to them (the Jock, the popular girl etc etc) but over the course of the novel grow layers and flesh and bone and become actual people. The people they are...One of them may be a killer. All of them are not as shallow or as easily read as would first appear. As they enter the spotlight, not only within school gossip but also under intense scrutiny as the police investigation unfolds, the media looks on and nothing will ever be the same again. We hear from all of them and start to understand what has led to this moment, Karen M.McManus slowly but surely takes us towards the ultimate resolution, peeling back the hidden underneath of their friendships and loyalties, pushing them together and pulling them apart.It is absolutely riveting - seriously I was hooked, I really engaged with all of them and their plight - so when I say this is utterly character driven I mean that exactly. As relationships are tested, not just within the school hierarchy but within each of their families, all of them have some serious growing up to do and you watch them do just that.Not all of the reveal moments are unexpected but they are all emotionally resonant, this is not just a Young Adult mystery but an unravelling of substance and what makes us tick as people. Plus to be fair the mystery element is HIGHLY intriguing - there is also a Christiesque touch to things that really adds to the sheer joy of reading it.That's it - The Breakfast Club if Agatha Christie had written it. One Of Us Is Lying in a nutshell for me.Highly Recommended. Beautifully written and a genuine barnstormer of a page turner.
2101553026	Nice little YA murder mystery.Two things kept me from really loving this and one of them isn't anyone's fault but my own.First, I didn't realize this was Young Adult. I just remembered seeing it a bunch in my feed and downloaded the audiobook without really taking a close look at the genre. <--oopsIt's been compared to The Breakfast Club a lot, and after reading it I can see it was for good reason.You have a bunch of cliches that all end up in detention together, only to discover that not everyone is (gasp!) what they seem.And you know what?I would have loved the hell out of this shit 30 years ago. But I'm just not the wide-eyed audience that is discovering this sort of thing for the first time anymore.So, all the different kids were exactly who and what I thought they would be.I'll tag these as spoilers, but if you're an adult I can't imagine that you would be even remotely surprised.The pretty popular girl, Addy? (view spoiler)[ Is self-conscious because of her overbearing mother who prizes looks above all else. Is in an extremely toxic relationship with a boyfriend that dictates her every move, and doesn't have any real friends. (hide spoiler)] The super-smart good girl, Bronwyn? (view spoiler)[She cheated to pass a really hard class because she was afraid she wouldn't get into Yale, otherwise. (hide spoiler)] The scummy drug dealer, Nate? (view spoiler)[ Well, he's dealing drugs. Which would violate his probation for...dealing drugs. However, he's only doing it to help pay bills because his bipolar mom ditched him with his alcoholic dad who's busy drinking up the rent check. (hide spoiler)]The handsome baseball star with the Southern drawl, Cooper? (view spoiler)[He's gay. Duh. (hide spoiler)]The dead kid, Simon? (view spoiler)[ He was a depressed douchebag who felt he deserved to be part of the In-Crowd and blamed everyone but himself for his unhappiness. (hide spoiler)]Again, 30 years ago this would have been a revelation to me. OMG! You mean everyone has secret anxieties? And sometimes they act like assholes so no one will figure out that they're just as freaked out as I am?!Now? Not so much.Ok, the second thing that sort of stepped on my enjoyment just a bit was that it was pretty easy to figure out whodunnit. There's even a line halfwayish through that (if you're even sort of paying attention) explains the who & the why.(view spoiler)[Bronwyn's sister finds out that Simon used to frequently comment on a 4chan/Reddit/something thread calling school shooters unimaginative but agreeing with their motives for taking out those people he felt were deserving assholes. (hide spoiler)] And since I was listening to the audiobook, I just assumed after hearing that statement that the book was almost over. Not so. The kids kept on digging around like they were waiting for their talking dog and stoner friend to unmask the villain for quite a bit longer. Maybe it wasn't supposed to be a surprise and the fun of the book was just in the character interaction? But again, I wasn't terribly interested in their teeny-bopper secrets & romances. <--because I'm fucking old & crusty.This is neither my fault nor the book's.I used to be that age. And when I was? I was just as full of piss, vinegar, zits, rebellion, and hormones as the next juvenile delinquent riding the puberty high. But just like teenagers don't (and don't want to) relate to a kid in pre-k who's obsessed with eating boogers and avoiding naps, I can no longer muster up the fucks for those angsty teenage emotions.However, for what it was, it was very well done. I would honestly recommend this to anyone who is looking for a thriller/suspense/mystery for their teen or tween. It mentions sex, drugs, and rock n roll, but nothing is explicit or particularly glorified. I would personally be fine with my 11 year old reading this if she wanted to, but I know everyone is different. In the end, this isn't one I'd recommend to my adult friends, but one that I will definitely be recommending to their kids.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
4480155175	I got major Gossip girl vibes from this but not in a bad way. Definitely enjoyed this much more than I thought I would. I had tons of things to do but I couldn't keep this book down. Feel free to read this like it's from Gossip girl😂 (Please just humour me) 😂It's just in- Bayview High's major drama. Five enter a room, only four return. The suspects are Bronwyn, Nate, Cooper and Addy. Bronwyn and Nate were so good together. The chemistry is just perfect. Their story at the end just made me confused. Addy went from being a submissive girl to an absolutely badass confident person and am all for it. The only person I thought could've had much more development to his story was Cooper. Compared to the other three towards the end, I forgot about him. Honestly, I didn't see it coming who was the culprit. So it took me by genuine surprise and I liked that. Also, can we talk about how repulsive Jake was🤢Overall, not bad Bayview High. Keeping the readers intrigued. Until next time. You know you love me.Xoxo,Gossip Girl (I'M SORRY. I HAD TO😂😭)
2374418302	A friend recommended I read it. I read it. We’re no longer friends.
2191492122	I had to pick something for the final round of the young adult fiction awards 2017 (since my initial choice did not make it to the final round) and it was the only candidate that looked appealing out of the 10 choices.I am so glad that I have decided to give this book a chance and read it.Excellent!Bronwyn RojasCooper ClayAdelaide PrentissNate MacauleySimon KelleherA BrainA JockA PrincessA criminalAn omniscient narrator4 students new in Detention1 student regular in Detention4 points of view in the book. 1 dead student.Were they set up?Is one of them the criminal mastermind?“Everybody’s got secrets, Right?” and “Let’s face it: everyone at Bayview High hated Simon”. As the owner of ‘About That’ blog, Simon has revealed many gossips about most of the students in Bayview High (truths and honest facts about them but still not nice things to say). No, this is not by Agatha Christie. This is a super interesting mystery young adult book. I kept changing my opinion about who was the killer as the points of view were alternating. My favorite couple was definitely Bronwyn and Nate. They had chemistry, they were different characters and of course I loved the way wicked bad boy Nate kept teasing perfectionist and nerdy Bronwyn.Highly recommended!
7814226428	خمس طلاب في ثانوية، كلهم مختلفين عن بعض زي الشمس والقمر، بيتم حبسهم في أوضة كإجراء عقابي، وبعدها واحد فيهم يموت! طبعاً الوفاة مش بسبب طبيعي، وبتحمل لغز كبير، وكل واحد من الأربعة الباقيين بيبقى مشتبه فيه. الرواية دي مزيج رهيب بين الدراما والغموض، بتحس إنك بتتفرج على فيلم تشويق بس وانت بتقرأ. الشخصيات: برونوين الذكية، نيت المشاغب، آدي، وكوبر الرياضي – كل واحد فيهم ليه قصة وسر بيخبّيه، وده اللي بيخلّي القراية ممتعة. بتحس إنك عايش معاهم، وكل ما تكتشف حاجة جديدة، بتتحمس أكتر عشان تعرف مين اللي عملها. الحوارات فيها روح المراهقين بجد، يعني مش متصنّعة، وده بيخلّيك تحس إنك فعلاً في المدرسة معاهم.المزايا:1- الشخصيات واقعية ومتنوعة: الرواية بتقدم أربع شخصيات رئيسية (برونوين، نيت، آدي، كوبر)، كل واحد فيهم من خلفية مختلفة وليه شخصية مميزة، يعني برونوين الشاطرة اللي بتحلم تدخل جامعة كبيرة، نيت اللي عايش حياة صعبة ومتمرد، آدي الشعبية اللي بتبان مثالية بس جواها حاجات تانية، وكوبر الرياضي اللي عنده أسرار. الكاتبة نجحت إنها تخلّي كل شخصية ليها صوت مختلف، فبتحس إنك عارف كل واحد فيهم زي ما يكون صاحبك.2- الإيقاع السريع: الرواية مكتوبة بطريقة تخلّيك تقلب الصفحات بسرعة. كل فصل بيحكي من وجهة نظر واحد من الأربعة، فبتشوف القصة من زوايا مختلفة، وده بيخلّي القراية ممتعة ومش بتزهق.3- الحبكة مليانة تشويق: القصة مبنية على لغز: مين قتل سايمون؟ وده بيخلّيك تغطس بين الصفحات عشان تعرف الحقيقة.العيوب:1- الحبكة أحياناً بتكون متوقعة: لو بتحب الألغاز المعقدة أوي زي روايات أجاثا كريستي مثلاً، ممكن تحس إن اللغز في الرواية دي مش معقد قوي. يعني بعض التويستات أو المفاجآت بتبقى متوقعة، خاصة لو قرأت كتير في النوع ده. في لحظات ممكن تحس إنك عارف النهاية قبل ما توصلها.2- النهاية ضعيفة: حسيت إنها جت سريعة شوية وإنها ناقصها حاجة.عموماً العمل كان جميل لكنه ما أضفش الجديد لأدب الجريمة، ممكن يكون مناسب أكتر كمدخل لأدب الجريمة والروايات البوليسية.
2159817082	”Things’ll get worse before they get better.“4.5/5Pretty Little Liars meets The Breakfast Club.Set in Bayview High, the book centres on five – soon to be four – students who all end up in detention after cellphones they didn’t own were found in their bags. Bronwyn, the top student who never puts a foot wrong and is headed for Yale; Cooper, the baseball star being looked at for the major league; prom queen and everyone’s favourite, Addy; Nate, the bad boy drug dealer on probation; and Simon, the creator of hated gossip app About That.Suddenly there is a commotion outside the classroom and the students see the aftermath of a minor car accident in the car park. While their teacher goes to investigate, Simon has a drink of water, collapsing soon after. Nate is aware Simon is suffering a severe allergic reaction but his EpiPen can’t be found. Cooper is sent to the nurse’s office to get one but finds the box is empty. Simon is rushed to hospital in a bad way, and everyone is stunned when they hear later that he has died.The four remaining students are in the frame for Simon’s death when police discover his cup of water contained peanut oil. All four are shown to have a motive when an unpublished About That post shows Simon was about to reveal damning secrets about each of them. The kinds of secrets that can ruin lives…The book is split into short sections narrated by the four main characters, and this took a bit of getting used to, but it’s an effective way for each to tell their story.I won’t spoil the ending by revealing who was responsible for Simon’s death, but every one of them had a good reason for wanting him dead. However, so did a number of other students he had crossed swords with. And who is behind the Tumblr posts written by someone who says they are the killer? The posts that keep revealing more secrets the four want to keep quiet? Did one of them kill Simon, or are they all in on it? Was it someone else? The last part of the book reads like a good murder mystery, with lots of red herrings, dead ends and a sudden realisation people are not always what they seem. The questions are all answered and tied up neatly, and there is even a happy ending or two that’ll melt your heart. 😍
1800296638	First book of 2018! 3.5 stars.This was a fast-paced and addictive read. The plot twists just kept coming, and the storyline kept me hooked from beginning to end. It definitely had its flaws, and sometimes felt like reading a gossipy tabloid magazine, but I still had a lot of fun. And I truly didn’t figure out the ending, and it was great to feel surprised by it.
4657480450	There were four other kids and a teacher in the same room where Simon loses his life. The four kids are soon seen as suspects because Simon is known for exposing the secrets of students in the school, and it was possible that they all had secrets they were hoping to never get out. So, who did it? The story mainly revolves around these four kids, Bronwyn, Addy, Cooper, and Nate. We learn a lot about each of them as the story progresses, and we get clues as to who the potential killer could be. They all have many secrets that could ruin how a lot of people see them. Not only is this a mystery, but Simon's death really changes all of them. I liked that this was not a story that was focused only on the mystery, but every character gets a good chunk of the book and also gets some growth. Simon, although he doesn’t get much growth, obviously because he’s dead, we still learn a lot about him. There were also many supporting characters that all have a role in each of the characters’ lives.I wasn’t particularly blown away by the reveals in the book. I wouldn't say necessarily predictable, but I didn’t get that mindfuck vibe that I like my mysteries to have. Also, I wasn’t super invested in the characters which are probably because I found them quite stereotypical. However, they were all very unique from each other.
2101735498	It does feel a lot like the Breakfast Club when it first starts (I even put on the movie in the background; then of course Sixteen Candles because obviously one must watch both movies in a row), but then you realize these kids' lives are like a train wreck. I could not have been more interested even if a train wreck could be viewed outside my window as I read this book with my binge background John Hughes movies playing. I was actually really into the story and the characters. Overall, a quick read that tells a twisted plot with characters who remind you that most of us as teens were a beautiful mess!
2160416994	Buddy Read with: Bishwaraj, Elsa, Zarshal and Amna. The title is MISLEADING! THE TITLE IS MISLEADING!! *feeling soo good now*This is a YA mystery novel. But I didn't feel any tension in the atmosphere. Instead, the atmosphere is pretty much relaxed to me. OVERVIEWFive students get detention. One of them dies of an allergic reaction. And the remaining four are suspected. But none of them has killed him even though everyone of them has a reason to do so. So who killed him in a closed room by poison?=> The synopsis of the book sounds one of the-most-amazing ones to me. But when I actually started reading it, I felt little disappointment. My expectations were very high, I repeat; VERY HIGH for this book. I thought there would be a lot of police's involvement or a lot of Interrogation or a lot of investigation. But they were not there upto my expectations. Instead, this book, felt to me, focused more on romance and other personal issues of characters. There were a good deal of chapters on these things. And few chapters on the actual plot. I prefer consistency. This point is the main reason of my disappointment.=> I liked that this book is written in 1st person POV of each of the four prime suspects. But the narration was pretty plain. Like whenever the narration switched, it didn't feel change which it should for a different character. Means that four of them sounded almost same to me. I must say that this thing, switching the narration, was brilliantly handled in Falling Kingdoms series by Morgan Rhodes. That series also has multiple POVs. And the good thing is, every character sounds waaay different than the other. Oh, mentioning this brings a sad reality to me that the final book of that series has been postponed!! >.<(view spoiler)[=> When Simon died, I had a feeling that he was trying to fake it; after all, he was a gossip guy which means he must had a lot of enemies. (I watch a lot of suspense/mystery/detective serials, so kinda have seen something like this). But I wasn't 100% sure of it. It was just a theory. And it turned out to be 50% true. He was not faking, he actually killed himself for fame!! He was crazy!And I couldn't guess Jake would be with him. (hide spoiler)]=> In the beginning, I didn't like any of the characters. But I started caring for them in the middle. Nate and Bronwyn were better than anyone. Overall, this is a debut novel. For that this is a good one. I liked it. I would have loved it if it didn't drag the plot that much.October 22, 2017
1978922201	An ARC has been kindly provided by Penguin Random House UK Children’s via NetGalley.com, in exchange for an honest review.4,5 starsI finished this book today “readwalking” home as I could not put it down. I just had to know!!!It was like Agatha Christies happening in high school with a Gossip Girl feel. I was deeply invested in this first work by Karen M. McManus. “It’s a great story: four good-looking, high-profile students all being investigated for murder. And nobody’s what they seem. The pressure’s on now, Bayview Police. Maybe you should be looking a little closer at Simon’s old entries. You might find some interesting hints about the Bayview Four.”It all begins in a classroom with five teenagers serving detention. They’ve been set up. Someone planted phones in their backpacks and the teacher had a strong no phone policy. By the end of detention only four will still be alive. Simon the creator of a gossip app dies poisoned.Soon enough investigations begin revolving around the four students. Who is the murderer?Is it Cooper the good ol’boy and rising baseball star? Is it Addy the shiny blonde Barbie? Is it Nate the school drugs dealer? Or is it valedictorian and goody two shoes Bronwyn?One by one they’re questioned. One by one we uncover their secrets…They were not perfect, far from it. Unexpected alliance and quasi friendships are forged. They would never have been close before but now they’re the Murderers Gang. Framed they’re shunned by their former “so called” friends.Told with multiple POV (something usually very difficult to execute properly when writing) Karen M McManus sucked me in this mystery novel.Of course solving the murder is the main topic but not the only one far from it.The author developed themes like:- cheating to reach one’s goal;- being your own person and daring to stand out among the high school clique; -daring to be different and go against your family’s beliefs and expectations;-prejudice framing someone as the perfect scapegoat;-bullying and how our modern society feeds on gossip and scandals like some reality TV porn (media circus);-police incompetency and court system’s injustice-… all this with an omniscient narrator as background foddering little tidbits to keep rumors going strong. Gossip Girl vibes  All along I was wondering: do I KNOW my kids? I mean really know them? Could I discover similar secrets or double lives? It was a somewhat unsettling but the right kind of unsettling. The one that gives you thrills because you love being a little bit frightened.I also loved the characters development.In the beginning I couldn’t stand Addy. I found her shallow and brainless. She was a “airhead homecoming princess”. She was never able to survive without being superglued to her boyfriend Jake. Luckily for me after what happened to her she did grew-up. She unexpectedly became one of my favorite characters and ended as a kind of super ninja. Who would have guessed she would grow a backbone? Not me that’s for sure!Nate has always been this kinda charming school badboy every girl secretly dreams of. From aloof and “I don’t give a f@ck what you’re thinking” attitude he morphed into this loyal and protective guy. The one that’s been beaten by life and doing his best to pay the bills.I guessed Cooper’s secret pretty early on. He remained the good old boy all along.Bronwyn was my second favorite character. She progressively let loose and we discovered a very smart and very determined girl. She would battle teeth and claws to protect her loved ones. She was the driving force of the gang. Thanks to her brilliant mind the mystery will be solved and not thanks to the police!Truly I can’t recommend this book enough.You want to follow all my reviews and rants? Sign up for my newsletter at: Or follow me on Facebook: Twitter:
2029084438	3.5 stars "Let's face it: everyone at Bayview High hated Simon. I was just the only one with enough guts to do something about it.You're welcome." One of Us is Lying is basically Gossip Girl meets YA thriller. Five teenagers walk into detention, four come out. The victim Simon ran a gossip app about the school and on the day he died, he was going post incriminating stories about our four main characters: Addy, Browyn, Nate, and Cooper. All four have POVs. So the question is, who's lying? "She's a princess and you're a jock," he says. He thrusts his chin towards Bronwyn, then at Nate. "And you're a brain. And you're a criminal. You're all walking teen-movie stereotypes." I didn't see the reveal coming, but when it did, it seemed so obvious. All the clues were there. That, my friends, is a sign of a good mystery.Like most YA thrillers these days, One of Us is Lying makes good use of social media to heighten tension and lead readers astray. Anonymous Tumblr posts from the killer show up as the investigation goes on, revealing details that only the five from the detention room would know. It also portrays high school with unflinching honesty, chronicling the cliques and rumors and petty alliances.I also like that it shows the staggering difference in how female criminals and male criminals are seen. Nate and Cooper are hot, dangerous, bad boy daydreams. Who can forget Jeremy Meeks? Addy and Browyn, in contrast, have it much harder on the Internet forums. Addy, in particular, because she cheated on her boyfriend is dubbed a slut and whore.There's romance, though it doesn't really derail the plot. McManus no doubt put Nate and Browyn—the bad boy and the nerd—together on purpose, teasing the whole "stereotype" factor. It was nice, though rather lacking in chemistry, imo. I much preferred Addy's storyline and how she eventually takes control of her love life. (view spoiler)[I'm really glad she didn't end up with TJ. It's more realistic and a complete opposite of the standard ending mainstream media has conditioned us to expect. TJ is too intertwined with Jake and Simon. Maybe in time Addy will give it a chance. Or maybe she'll choose someone else, or not choose anyone at all. The openness of it all is refreshing. (hide spoiler)]You'll know you'll love One of Us is Lying. xoxo, Natalie Monroe["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2034337785	Ugh, this book really got me right in the heart. I just put it down and immediately turned on "Don't You (Forget About Me)" in its honor.
2176234114	4 stars! “She's a princess and you're a jock," he says. He thrusts his chin toward Bronwyn, then at Nate. "And you're a brain. And you're a criminal. You're all walking teen-movie stereotypes.” The Breakfast Club meets Pretty Little Liars.....Yeah, I'd actually have to agree with this assessment. One of Us Is Lying is a book I was intrigued by when it came out but didn't make the time to read. That's why I love the Goodreads Choice Awards, because it helps me pick up books that would have been on the tbr list forever.Anyways, this book is about a jock, popular girl, brain, and a criminal who get detention with their school's version of gossip girl. Except by the end of detention, Simon aka gossip monger, ends up dead. Now the four students there with him are suspected of murder, and all of them have secrets no one could ever have expected. “I guess we're almost friends now, or as friendly as you can get when you're not one hundred percent sure the other person isn't framing you for murder.” I ended up really enjoying this one, the murdery side of teen books don't really appeal to me, but this book was more focused on the characters and their development than the mystery plot. Some things were fairly predictable, but they were in a way that I liked it. Does that make any sense? I liked all four main characters equally, each of them had something interesting to bring to the table. One of them had to grow on me but by the end I liked them.I think this book is perfect for teens who love shows like Pretty Little Liars and Gossip Girl. Perfect for the relucant readers and those who would like a murdery John Hughes movie, if one existed. “Things'll get worse before they get better.” Follow me on ♥ Facebook ♥ Blog ♥ Instagram ♥ Twitter ♥
1976458699	I LOOOVVVEEEDDDDD THIS. One Of Us Is Lying is about 5 teenagers who find themselves in detention after someone pulled a cell phone prank on them. Random cell phones that didn’t belong to them were found in their backpacks and nobody knew why. Simon, the guy who runs a popular gossip site at school, takes a drink from a cup of water and dies.The story was sooo incredibly intriguing right from the start. The whole detention scene takes place in the first few pages/chapters (??? I don’t remember) and it immediately makes you curious and take guesses who could have killed Simon. It definitely got me hooked. I also took a liking to the 4 main characters right from the start.We experience the story from the perspectives of the 4 other students who were at detention with Simon aka the “suspects” of Simon’s murder. I’ve always said that I’m not that much of a fan of multiple POVs but this was carried out SO well!The four characters are deliberately portrayed as your stereotypical high school students – the jock, the princess, the brain and the criminal. But they were still such likable characters and I found myself rooting for each of them to get out of the whole murder mess safely!Throughout the story, there were a lot of twists and turns, new secrets and truths being revealed and unravelled and it made the whole thing very exciting! I never really knew who to suspect but I do have to say I had one or two suspicions (which also happened to be right lol) but that totally didn’t make this any less exciting!There’s also a romance that is developing (it is not the main focus though) WHICH I LOVED. Like I am literally obsessed. MY NEW OTP. ❤I’m very impressed by this debut novel (LIKE HOW IS THIS A DEBUT??? IT’S SO GOOD!!!) and I definitely want to read more of McManus’ work!You’ve probably heard SO much about this book already but IT’S AWESOME and it totally deserves all the hype! I hope I could get you to consider adding it to your TBR/purchasing it/recommending it to a friend, if you haven’t already done all of these things 😉 It’s so worth it!Full review is now up on my blog: https://toomuchofabooknerd.wordpress.... :)*I received a free ARC from the publisher via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. This did not affect my opinion in any way!*
2039790424	I started this with high hopes. The 'who done it' element was great and I was loving the fact that I was constantly kept guessing but unfortunately I ended up being pretty disappointed. I didn't totally dislike this book, as I said, for a majority of it it kept my attention and I was constantly intrigued. But unfortunately I felt it was somewhat insensitive in its handling of certain plot points, specifically mental illness and sexuality. Honestly? I'm just tired of mental illness being trivialised and demonised for the sake of a 'plot twist'. So many people are trying to break down certain stereotypes and narratives like this only help to build those up. I also felt that mental illness and sexuality was added into the story in a way that was anticlimactic and an overused trope? I'm not sure about my feelings on this book. I definitely wasn't a fan of the ending but for the first three quarters, it was an intriguing read but I won't be happily recommending it any time soon.
2647314530	This was one of the more entertaining young adult books I have read in recent memory. If certain obligations wouldn't have gotten in the way, I definitely would have devoured this book in a day. I liked the four main characters as they each brought something different to the table. The book has been described as a mix of The Breakfast Club and Gossip Girl and I found that be a fairly spot on comparison. Five teenagers of differing backgrounds are assigned detention but one of them winds up dead. Simon was set to post damaging secrets online about the four before he died and now the remaining kids are suspects in his death. I thought the story had a nice combination of things that were easy to predict but also stuff you might not see coming ahead of time. I would classify this as a solid beach read and by that I mean just settle down and enjoy the ride but you're probably best off not taking it too seriously. There are a few aspects of the plot that I did side-eye but those things did not hamper my overall enjoyment of the story. If you are looking for a good escapism type read you might want to give this one a shot!
1918067828	This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life in Books.Every once in a while a book that is a joy to read ends up in your hands. This was one of those books. Initially this book completely escaped my notice but then I started seeing some really great reviews for it from a lot of different people. I saw a bandwagon and decided to jump on. I am so glad that I did. This book was such a surprise for me. I hoped that I would like it but I never expected to love it. Once I got about midway through the book, I didn't put it down until I turned the last page. The characters in this story are great. I had hoped that I would like the characters when I started reading this book. I never dreamed for a moment that I would love them. The four main characters at the heart of this book are all very different from each other and I really felt like I got to know them over the course of the book. There were times that I felt like the book was really focusing on one character more than the others but then the focus would move on to the next character for a while. I really enjoyed getting to know all four members of the group.This book starts out in detention. Simon, Bronwyn, Addy, Cooper, and Nate are the only students in detention that day but after a terrifying emergency only four students ever get to leave. Simon is rushed to the hospital where he later dies. The authorities think that one or all of the other students might be responsible for his death since Simon was about to reveal big secrets about each person on his gossip blog.The mystery in this book was really very well done. I had no idea what happened to Simon. I would come up with a theory only to realize that I had to be wrong soon after. I was literally guessing until the end of the book. I also really felt for each of the characters as their secrets were revealed. All four really go through a major life change during the course of this book.I would highly recommend this book to others. This was a very smartly written story that was next to impossible to put down. I am very impressed by the fact that this is the first book written by Karen M. McManus. I look forward to reading more of her work in the future.I received an advance reader edition of this book from Random House Children's - Delacorte Press via NetGalley.Initial ThoughtsI can't even believe how good this book was! I liked the whole thing but the ending really got to me. I cannot believe that this is the first book the Karen McManus wrote.
2206010167	***4,5 Stars*** "'She's a princess and you're a jock,' he says. [...] 'And you're a brain. And you're a criminal. You're all walking teen-movie stereotypes." One of Us Is Lying is fasted paced, fun and very addictive. Imagine "The Breakfast Club" meets murder mystery. It’s a book that had my attention from start to finish and I was disappointed every time I had to put it down. I’m gonna go ahead and say it is very unputdownable. So, you have five stereotypical students who end up in detention one afternoon. There’s Cooper - the jock, Bronwyn - the nerd, Addy - the pampered princess, Nate - the naughty boy and Simon - outcast/gossip blogger. When Simon dies in a mysterious way during that detention, the other four students are immediately put in the spotlight. Is one of them lying or did they plan it together? Or maybe it’s even worse and someone else is framing them? These are all valid questions and the author does a beautiful job at disentangling them. This book is very well written, with the narrator's voice alternating between the other four surviving students. Each chapter reveals something new about each character and helps build up motives, suspicions and adds twists and turns. Everyone has a hidden agenda and nothing is as simple as it initially seems to be. The ending may be quite the surprise to some, but I have to say that I saw through the mystery from the very beginning. I don’t even know why, but before I started pointing any fingers and get suspicious, I said to myself “I think I know how this is going to play out” and surprisingly, I was right in the end. However, it is smoothly and believably written - so I don’t think you’ll be disappointed. Also, the author does an excellent job of tying up all plot lines and loose ends. If you’re looking for an entertaining and quick read before the year ends, I’d highly recommend giving this novel a shot. But… I could be lying, so you will have to judge for yourself.
1781971334	This book? Completely unputdownable. I'm totally blown away. Karen McManus's 2017 debut, ONE OF US IS LYING, is told from the perspectives of four high school students suspected for the murder of their classmate, Simon, who was in detention with them and didn't come out alive. Right away, the tension was thick and stakes were high. Which one wasn't telling the truth? Who should we believe, and why? Usually I'm pretty good at unraveling the mystery, but with this story, I seriously had no clue. I was kept guessing and second-guessing and flipping back and forth from one theory to another, only to find out I was nowhere near the truth. ONE OF US IS LYING is my kind of book. It's insanely smart, twisty, and unpredictable, with so much character growth and depth. The fact that the story is told from four perspectives adds a lot of dimension and lets the reader get into each character's head and formulate theories about who can be trusted. I'm SO excited for this book to hit shelves in 2017. It's truly unlike anything I have ever read, and I'm definitely calling myself a lifelong Karen McManus fangirl. Any writer who can mess with my head as much as she has (and so effortlessly!) has all of my respect. Captivating, sharp, and shocking, ONE OF US IS LYING is a book any lover of YA contemporary mysteries will love. And I'm not lying about that.
2008456373	3.75/5 stars "I guess we're almost friends now, or as friendly as you can get when you're not one hundred percent sure the other person isn't framing you for murder." So I actually predicted the ending (view spoiler)[ well all except Jake had something to do with it (hide spoiler)] and I'm so incredibly proud of myself, I'm thinking of throwing away all future career plans I may have and becoming a detective because obviously, I'm a prodigy. And for once in my life, I'm not overwhelmed by a rush of disappointment after finishing this book. I knew this wasn't a type of book I was going to be all heart-eyes over, so my expectations was a three star book and that's what I got. Thanks @disappointment for leaving me along for once. One Of Us Is Lying is about The Breakfast Club four stereotypical high school students who witness a murder during detention one day, and after some Tumblr posts, they are all the main suspects in the murder. There's Bronwyn, the "brains"And Nate, the "criminal"Then Addy the "beauty"Lastly, Cooper, the "athlete"Sounds just like The Breakfast Club right? Except one's a classic movie and the other has murder...(view spoiler)[I think one of the most tragic things about this book is Simon, the guy who was murdered, died in detention. Poor guy. Nobody deserves that. If I was to die, I would want to be doing something I loved, like while reading a book or six episodes deep into a Toddlers & Tiaras marathon. But Simon was unfortunate enough to be murdered during the worst part of high school. I don't care if he's some huge gossiper, no one deserves to die, and no one deserves to die in detention. Even with the twist at the ending, no one deserves it.That plot twist at the ending, the one I correctly predicted, where it was actually all an elaborate suicide left me incredibly disappointed. I felt like it was thrown in there just as a plot twist,instead of using this as a way to talk about mental health.Also, let's talk about the misleading title. None of the four characters were lying, while at the same time all of them were. (hide spoiler)]This book really wasn't anything outstanding to me, but the read was so freaking fun that I don't even care. I became so invested in wanting to know what happened, that I read the entire thing in mostly one sitting.If ya wanna fun, ya thriller that's more addicting than thrilling then this is the read for you.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2351221638	First of all, this was full of cliches and I definitely feel like I read something like this before. Most of the peoples secrets were easy to guess and I knew about half way through what happend with Simon.But you know what? It was still hella entertaining and I powered through this. I don't know what it was. I guess I really liked the writing style and the characters even though they were the typical type of teenagers you find in such stories.
4284649637	I'm a big fan of this book and really excited to watched the tv series based on this book! I haven't read a YA novel in a long time and was afraid it would be too young for me but I really enjoyed it. The murder mystery kept me on my toes the entire time. I had no idea who was behind everything until the characters figured it out. Its also an immensely character driven book which I love. Even without the mystery aspect, I would read a whole book just about these characters lives and I love how the characters were all so different but were brought together by the bizarre circumstances they went through together.
2447188245	5 teenagers walk into detention only 4 of them walk out alive……Think Breakfast Club – in terms of the diversity of the characters and Gossip girl (gossip/juicy secrets revealed via a blog)I was surprised how much I enjoyed this, I was invested in the characters and wanted to find out who killed Simon and why. Addy was one of my favorite characters, how she evolved, shed the preconceptions of her prom queen persona, stood up for herself and came into her own. YA for me can be a bit hit or miss, I thoroughly enjoyed this one.And Stan, one lucky lizard… and Nate that ending. I don’t particularly enjoy romance in books, but this was an exception. I enjoyed the writing style of Karen and I have already picked up the latest book to read.
2056559785	This book is the love child of Veronica Mars, The Breakfast Club and Gossip Girl . “She’s a princess and you’re a jock.” He says. He thrusts his chin toward Bronwyn, then at Nate. “And you’re a brain. And you’re a criminal. You’re all walking teen-movie stereotypes” This book is entertaining in a guilty pleasure type of way. I read it at a fast pace because it was an easy read. Plot: Five students get detention but one of them dies and the other four become suspects. All of them have secrets that makes them look guilty. The victim has a public blog where he posts people’s secrets and before he died, he had unpublished posts about the four people in detention with him . Who could the murderer be? The brainiac (Bronwyn) that wants to get into an Ivy League school and would do anything to make sure nothing gets in her way? The bad boy (Nate) who is already on probation for selling drugs? The blonde ‘beauty queen’ (Addy) who would make sure her perfect life with her perfect boyfriend doesn’t get ruined? Or the perfect jock (Cooper) who would do anything to keep his perfect reputation? This book overall was cliche but oddly still enjoyable. Their ‘secrets’ were not fascinating and I think the person that had the most ‘shocking’ one was Cooper but I guessed it from the beginning because it was really cliche. I did find the characters funny sometimes though and I loved the interactions with themselves.The romance was cliche especially between Bronwyn and Nate. The brainiac and the bad boy falling in love? Been there done that BUT I still ate that shit up. I really enjoyed them which again leads to my point about the book being a guilty pleasure.As for the mystery, It was hard to narrow down suspects especially since all the main suspects had their own POV and retained their innocence so I began suspecting people who were not in the detention too and even though I suspected a lot of people, the culprit still came as a shock to me. I did not suspect them at all which I guess is a good thing. Overall, I enjoyed the book and I think it’s good if you want to read something not too complicated.*****************I bet the butler did it
4070619089	“I know what it's like to tell yourself a lie so often that it becomes the truth.”Can I start this by saying that I'd be lying if I said that I never trusted all four memeber of the "murder club". I loved all of them especially Kris who wasn’t even a main character. I loved how they supported each other when in the beginning it was clear how strongly they disliked each other.“Are we friends, or just a couple of people without better options?”In this book we have four main "stereotypical" students: Cooper-the jock, Addy-the popular princess, Brownyn-the brains and Nate-the criminal. Now you might think that these "stereotypical teens might be acting like the "stereotypical teens" throughout the book then then the answer is yes. And no. They might act like one in the beginning however there's a lot of depth behind their characters. Let's talk about these characters:COOPER: “Sure, sure. No rush, no pressure. It’s entirely up to you, Cooper.”People always say that but it doesn’t feel true.” Cooper is one of my favorite characters from this book. He is the so called jock of this story. He's a very good and popular athlete and loves his family to whom he acts like the perfect son. But is he a perfect son in reality? Does being someone your family does not approve of make you imperfect? Well no. Not at all. And I love Cooper for realizing this. You might think that it's not a big deal but believe me when I say that it is. I have said this before and I'll say this again that pressuring someone to come out is one of the worst crimes you could ever commit. ADDY: "Sexism is alive and well in true-crime coverage, because Bronwyn and I aren't nearly as popular with the general public as Cooper and Nate.” Addy is our popular princess with an amazing social life (which isn't true) and a very popular boyfriend Jake (view spoiler)[(who's a douchebag and an asshole and whatever swear word you could ever think of) (hide spoiler)]. So when Simon dies and her truth comes out, her so called social life takes a 360 degree turn. She understands the true meaning of friendship. And yes Addy's mother is dumb. Don't ever listen to people like her who believe that girls need a man to live a happy life. People with such mentality are fucked up. NATE “There are four kids involved...and every single one of them except you is backed by parents who are materially comfortable and present in their children's lives. You're the obvious outlier and scapegoat.” Nate is our "criminal" who sells weed because his alcoholic father can't bother much to earn money. But like who cares? All everyone likes is to judge people. And I'm not saying what he did was right but if anyone had just cared a little bit like Brownyn did (though she did judge him before however improved as she came to know him better),they would have know about his father and how he treated his son. BROWNYN: “I’m kidding, but Bronwyn goes rigid. “How can you say that?” Her cheeks get red, giving her that flushed look that always unsettles me. She’ll surprise you one day with how pretty she is. Brownyn is our "brains" who is good at everything except chemistry (you'll know why). But no one knows that she's just like everyone else too. Everyone keep assuming that she's naturally good at studies but no one sees how much under pressure she is. Simon and Jake - two assholes who thought they were above anyone. All they knew was to make others life. I won't write much about them because that would destroy my two remaining brain cells and also spoilers so... This book is worth reading. I couldn't guess the ending until the very end (however I don't have a lot of brain cells so that might have played a role). The only thing I don't like about this book is the ending. It was too abrupt and I really wanted to know more about what happens to everyone after *beep beep* gets caught. AND YES THERE'S A SHOW COMING OUT THIS YEAR. I'M REALLY EXCITED (even though I'm not liking the cast but still I hope they do justice to the book).
2048681676	4.5 STARS LET ME JUST FIRST START OFF BY STATING THE FACT THAT I hardly ever read YA contemporaries, let alone murder mysteries like this, so every twist and turn that occurred in this book was pretty mind blowing for me when to most people, it's probably just your average YA thriller/mystery.But you know what??? I've read enough books in my life to know that this one was still exceptionally good. Now I just want to read a sequel of this book more murder mysteries so pls recommend some to me and i'll love you forever <3I think what really attracted me to this book in the first place is the premise of the actual story. Call me basic or whatever, but I'm complete trash for those popular Netflix shows everyone seems to be obsessing over these days (Riverdale, Thirteen Reasons Why ((that can be debatable)), Gossip Girl, etc.) and this book - from what I've fathomed in the synopsis - seems like the book version of those shows. Set in high school, with interesting and complex characters who are more or less the same age as me, and a gripping plot that will keep me on my toes the entire time, I'd happily devour that story thanks. The conflict of this book is the typical 'someone murdered this person and we need to find out who!!! but before we do that, let's throw in a whole lot of drama and angst first!!', but what I liked about this is that the pacing was good. It wasn't only interesting in the beginning or end, but throughout the whole book, but the suspense and the little clues that are being dropped here and there kept me hooked the entire time and even in some of the parts that have zero relevance to the murder plot, you still love it anyway cause you're so invested in the characters' lives.I said it before that I never read murder mysteries, so I expected myself to be dumb af the whole time while figuring out who the culprit really was, but WTF A RANDOM THEORY POPPED INTO MY HEAD HALFWAY THROUGH AND I WAS SO RIGHT ABOUT IT. I figured out who did it and the small victory lowkey made me think that hey i might just become a detective in the future lmao (jk its too stressful)What also surprised me about this book is how real and fleshed out the side characters were. Usually in YA contemporaries, the sister or the random friend has absolutely no substance in their character and their only purpose is either to provide mediocre advice to the protagonist or just be their own irrelevant selves. But in this book, I was impressed at how Maeve and Ashton felt so real to me, and how their roles in the story were so pivotal that the story wouldn't be what it is without their presence. And whilst I liked the side characters, I ABSOLUTELY AND COMPLETELY LOVED AND ADORED THE MAIN CHARACTERS. Bronwyn, Addy, Cooper and Nate seem really cliché at first, but you'll be surprised at how they actually turn out to be such intriguing characters with complicated histories and secrets - which btw were also so amazingly woven into the story. However, Addy and Nate had the best development in my opinion, and I'm just sooo happy their characters were given justice by the author in the end. It's been a while since I read a book where the romance wasn't thrown in my face repeatedly to the point where I feel like i'll vomit if they kiss again so I definitely appreciated the subtle romantic plot going on between certain characters. It didn't overshadow the real murder plot, and sometimes less is more you know???? (view spoiler)[ i loved nate and bronwyn so much and i think it's because they remind me so much of jughead and betty from riverdale (hide spoiler)] I don't think I've ever shipped two people so much since Kaz and Inej. The epilogue also made me want to dance on rainbows and eat fairy floss because it was just so goddamn cute and satisfying and just pure bliss.*heart eyes*I'm just gonna once again reiterate the fact that IM SO HAPPY I READ THIS BOOK because then I can recommend it to any living soul I come across with!! So ya, if you're reading this review and u haven't picked it up, then go go go and read it and i hope it will make you just as happy as I was!_______________________________well this is obviously going straight to my 2017 favourites shelf.RTC _____________________________Buddy reading with this purple haired maniac even though we all know the main reason i agreed to this is because this book is apparently??? great for Gossip Girl fans and i'm obvs 100% GG trashbut a cool murder mystery never hurt nobody so I'm keen for this!!
3816795655	This quickly became a book favorite of mine. From the captivating "who did what" story line, to the teenage romance drama, I was hooked right from the start. In the beginning of the story, a student named Simon dies in detention, with four other students in the room. Each of those students are a suspect, and all of them have a secret they're hiding. The story switches perspectives between the four student suspects each chapter, giving you a deeper look into their side of the story. If you enjoy mystery and young-adult fiction, I have no doubt you'd be hooked on this book.
2338207577	4.5 STARS ★★★★✬ This book is for you if… are ignorant enough to believe ya crime is beneath you. You lousy fool. Be prepared to have your mind changed. TW: s*icide, selfh*rm, homophobia. ⤐ Overall.I didn't know about the genre of YA mystery until a couple of months ago - bonkers, right? - but here I am helplessly grabbing at everything halfway decent with my greedy fingers.Turns out I was right. People keep comparing this to something called The Breakfast Club. Some of you might be shocked I have absolutely no idea what that is. So instead of naming books, movies and shows that are similar to One of Us is Lying, please find instead an incomplete list of reasons I loved this book:⇢ it touches on many social issues that are still hushed up⇢ for once, the German doesn't speak in a Nazi-esque hollywood-bullshit accent - even better; he's the one to solve it all in the end. GO you fluffy cloud of gay perfection ⇢ plenty of character growth, especially where my badass gal Addy is concerned⇢ it's absolutely thrilling⇢ the feelz If you set out to write a book with a plot like this, there's only two possible outcomes: complete failure or utter success. Owed to the immense talent and hard work of Karen, this book can definitely be described as friggin brilliant. I always find multiple POVs difficult - either none of them ever catch my interest, thereby dooming the book as a whole, or I can't keep up with the changes and get confused, thereby also dooming the book as a whole.Karen, however, manages to beautifully unravel the mystery for her readers, by allowing us to get to know four perfectly imperfect teenagers that, amidst all the drama, still find it in themselves to stay strong and find their way back to themselves eventually. We become intimate with their fears, desires and mistakes.I was a bit worried when I met bad-boy-slash-low-key-criminal Nate at first, afraid I'd have to put up with another bad boy who uses his traumatising past as an excuse to behave like a complete tool. Instead, Nate, just like the other three MCs proofs to be flawed but with his heart in the right place (ish). Just like the rest of them. So, do yourself a favour and listen to Dora and the rest of us Karen M McManus fans ... ‘Unless one of us is lying. Which is always a possibility.’ ⤐ What’s happening. ‘She's a princess and you're a jock,’ he says. He thrusts his chin toward Bronwyn, then at Nate. ‘And you're a brain. And you're a criminal. You're all walking teen-movie stereotypes.’ Or that's what everybody seems to think after the four of them enter detention together with a fifth student, only for that student to not leave detention alive. Did four unlikely allies come together to take down the plague of Bayview High? Or were they framed by an unknown third party? It seems that there is at least one unknown player involved since unpleasant truths about the Bayview Four keep popping up, causing lovers to break up, friends to declare war and ... previously undermined girls to find their inner Xena._____________________5 STARS.Absolutely loved it. Memorable read that I'm likely to return to. Takes up space in my mind long after I've finished it. Oftentimes a particularly insightful read. Will recommend it with my last breath.4 STARS.Would stay up beyond my typical hours to finish it. I found some minor details I didn't like, agree with or lacked in some kind but overall, this was enjoyable and extraordinary.
1802670923	One of Us is Lying was a book I’d been anticipating since I first heard about it last year. It tells the story of five high school students who are sent to detention together, however only four come out alive. The book alternates point of views between the four remaining students as the police try and figure out the mystery of the fifth students death.I really enjoyed this book, and it felt like reading a book based off of the game Clue a little bit, and I loved that! At first, it was a little tricky to remember which character was which, especially since they all had people they were dating or friends with, who were also referenced, so I had a little trouble keeping up with who was who and who was dating who, but once I got a little farther into the book, that was no longer an issue. This ended up being a 4.5 star read for me. Each character had their own unique voice and personality, which was really enjoyable to read.
1683930398	2.5 starsMaybe I had high expectations with this because quality YA mystery thrillers are far and few between. This one had raves before release. And let's face it..the brief synopsis is damn intriguing: One of Us Is Lying is the story of what happens when five strangers walk into detention and only four walk out alive. Everyone is a suspect, and everyone has something to hide. Something like Breakfast Club meets Pretty Little Liars is quite the comparison. Yet it was out there, so I waited longer than I needed to wanting to save a good mystery for when I really needed it. And that's how we get the high expectations I speak of. Anyway..This one is definitely fun. I was constantly trying to figure out whodunnit and what is truth or lie. Some things aren't difficult to figure out, but there were still some nice little twists in there. The characters fall a bit on the cliché side full of what you'd expect insert stereotypical high school personality here. I can't say I cared much about any of them. Besides this issue, the writing is good in terms of being an easy read making it surprising that this is a debut. I like how it's a mystery with a fully contemporary feel. There are a few issues I have with the plot that may be viewed as harmful to some readers. Though it becomes an issue to discuss in a review because these are major spoilers.We have five students in detention:Bronwyn - brainy good girlCooper - baseball starNate - bad boyAddy - pretty popular girlSimon - outcast and creator of school gossip appOne dies in detention. The rest are all viable suspects. One thing we know from the title is someone is lying. POV alternates between the four living students. Can you figure out who the killer is?I enjoyed the book overall. I was missing any connection to the characters. And certain revelations are predictable. Inexperienced mystery readers will have a better time with this one.
3073177130	4.5 stars! I really enjoyed this, and I don’t know if I’ve just become much more of a murder mystery/thriller person this year or what, but these are really hooking me in! Glad I finally took the time to read this one!
