3977912526	This review is a copy of the transcript of my video review on Blood Over Bright Haven.ARC provided by the author in exchange for an honest review.Unbelievable... She did it again. Blood Over Bright Haven is proof that no one writes standalone fantasy books as good as M.L. Wang. Full stop. “Truth over delusion. Growth over comfort. God over all.Here we are. A new adult fantasy book by M.L. Wang is finally here. Whether you knew about my book reviews from Goodreads, Twitter, or BookTube, you might have known that I have been a diehard fan of The Sword of Kaigen by M.L. Wang for years. I read and reviewed The Sword of Kaigen all the way back in January 2019. So four and a half years ago. Since then, it has been an utter delight seeing readers continuously loving The Sword of Kaigen. I have received many kind messages of gratitude for my book recommendation I will always treasure. For the past four and a half years, I told myself to always uphold my patience in waiting for Wang’s newest book. And now that I have read Blood Over Bright Haven, I am glad to say this patience has been rewarded. The Sword of Kaigen was not a fluke. Blood Over Bright Haven may be a different kind of fantasy novel compared to The Sword of Kaigen, but is another standalone masterwork. M.L. Wang's storytelling is a blessing to the genre, and we readers are lucky to live in the same era as her. And we should do the job of bestowing her books to future fantasy readers. “It matters because you’re a child. The future ultimately isn’t mine or Sciona’s. It’s yours.”Blood Over Bright Haven takes place in the industrial utopia of Tiran, and it follows the story of two main characters. The first one is Sciona. An orphan since the age of four, Sciona has devoted every waking moment to the study of magic for more than twenty years. Her goal is to be the first woman ever admitted to the High Magistry. But when she finally claws her way up to the ranks to become a highmage, she finds that her challenges have just begun. Her new colleagues will do everything they can to make sure she knows she is unwelcome, and one of the ways they do this is to provide her with a Kwen janitor instead of a qualified lab assistant. This janitor, however, is the second main character: Thomil. Sciona and Thomil will have to work together to advance Sciona's status and unravel the mysteries of magic. This is the premise of the book. It is a dark academia fantasy novel brimming with mystery, tragedy, morality, and echoes of the past. As you can probably tell, the pursuit of truth is a big motivator of the character’s motivations. And believe me on this, Blood Over Bright Haven is a relatively small fantasy book. But at 120,000 words long, this standalone novel packed many emotional themes to explore, and the characterizations and development were insanely well-written. As you can imagine from Wang's storytelling if you have read The Sword of Kaigen. “All those jobs involve people, and I’m terrible with people. Magic is the one area where I can shut myself in a room with my books and my thoughts and come out more powerful than I went in. It doesn’t matter how big, or strong, or pretty you are in magic. It doesn’t matter how much people like you. With my fingers on the keys of a spellograph, if I can just think hard enough, I’m the most powerful person in the world.”Blood Over Bright Haven circulates around many themes like legacy, family, vengeance, love, sacrifice, and intense faith and prejudice. As I said, it is a 120,000 words long novel, but if I discuss how each theme was magnificently implemented into the narrative, we will be here longer than it would be. So I will narrow it down to two main themes. And to explain my first point, I need to compare this novel to a recently released and recent favorite dark academia novel: Babel by R.F. Kuang. In Babel, the two main themes tackled in that book were colonialism and racism. Whether they were too on the nose or not, and whether you (as a reader) prefer it to be more subtle, I will leave that for you to decide on your own. But here’s the thing. One of the main themes in Blood Over Bright Haven is gender injustice or misogyny. I know some readers are usually annoyed by this. But look at it this way. If you liked reading the theme of gender conflicts and injustice portrayed in The Wheel of Time by Robert Jordan, but prefer it to be much more efficient and less repetitive, then Blood Over Bright Haven will be suitable for you. This theme is profoundly utilized in the first half of the novel, and it remains strongly evident in the second half for many good reasons I cannot mention due to spoilers. I personally found it to be so extraordinarily well done. Social status, justice, ambition, faith, and racism are some of the other key themes of Blood Over Bright Haven. And it was unforgettable how Wang integrated all of these into topics of extreme bigotry, selfishness, and delusion. This novel depicts a quest for knowledge and truth at all costs, no matter how bloody it gets. “You’re the worst kind of murderer, I think… The kind who won’t even acknowledge her crime. You’ve never worshipped a god of truth… You worship a delusion.”It is said if you stand up for nothing, you will fall for anything. However, what if the beliefs you stood up for have been the wrong thing? And then there is the matter of intentions versus the result of actions. What if your intentions were good, but the result is disastrous? Is it better when an intention of an individual is bad, but the result turns out great? Faced with this situation, which one is more benevolent and virtuous? Will guilt or grief be enough to cancel harmful actions brought out of good intentions? These are a few questions raised in Blood Over Bright Haven. It is true that Blood Over Bright Haven, as I said, is a different kind of book from The Sword of Kaigen. I mean, even the subgenre itself is different. The Sword of Kaigen is an Asian-inspired military epic fantasy, Blood Over Bright Haven is a dark academia or gaslamp fantasy novel. But there is no doubt that quite similar themes in this novel brought forth the emotional impact of immense proportions as The Sword of Kaigen did. And, of course, comparable to The Sword of Kaigen, this review is incomplete without talking about the characters and excellent characterizations. “The Caldonnae and most peoples beyond the barrier weigh a person by their actions and the effect they have on the world. It’s not enough to have meant to do good in the world; if you don’t do good, most gods—those of rivers, the hunt, and the fields—don’t care for your motivations. Why should they?”It is practically unanimous that those, myself included, who loved The Sword of Kaigen treated Wang’s characterizations, arc, and development as masterful. And rest assured. You will get those again here. The 27 years old Sciona Freynan started off moderately, and I’m assuming intentionally, unlikeable. She was an egomaniac, self-centered, and single-mindedly driven toward her ambition. But remember that this leaves room for rewarding character development. Through her encounter and budding relationship with Thomil, a kind-hearted melancholic character with a harsh past, Wang achieved fruitful characterizations and growth. For both of them, not just Sciona. And I cannot help but wish more authors and storytellers were as capable as the way Wang portrayed characters’ emotions and relationships as deeply as possible. I don’t think it’s a spoiler to say that some revelations in this book changed everything for the characters, and when that happened, I almost literally felt the devastating damage it did to the characters. Yes, not just Sciona and Thomil, but also Alba, Carra, and the other supporting characters. The way M.L. Wang writes characters and palpable emotional turmoils through actions, inner thoughts, and dialogues can be reflected only by the best kind of authors. And Wang is definitely one of them. By the end of the book, Sciona Freynan belongs in my list of favorite characters. To do everything M.L. Wang achieved here in a one-off standalone book (a relatively short one) feels almost impossible. And yet, she succeeded. This book will bring many thought-provoking discussions on principles and morality, and I haven’t even talked about the complex magic system. “Thomil said that a woman was weighed at the gates of Heaven by her actions and their impact. Well, Sciona was going to leave an impact. Whatever happened next, whether it led to Hell or Heaven, she was going to have a hand in directing it. Sick or sound, good or evil, she was still Sciona Freynan. And Sciona Freynan didn’t slow down. Sciona Freynan would be remembered.”I have made it crystal clear that I am a lifelong fan of manga and anime, and Fullmetal Alchemist by Hiromu Arakawa, or the anime adaptation Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, is one of my top favorite stories of all time out of all storytelling mediums. You can probably imagine my uncontrollable excitement to witness that Blood Over Bright Haven is, intentionally or not, inspired by it. I’m going to assume some part of it is true because the official synopsis of Blood Over Bright Haven did mention the novel is suitable for those who love Fullmetal Alchemist. I think this is accurate. And whether in Fullmetal Alchemist or not, one of the irrefutable laws of alchemy is the law of equivalent exchange. It is impossible to conjure something out of nothing. The magic of mapping and siphoning through a spellograph in Blood Over Bright Haven is one of the most initially complex magic systems I have ever encountered. If you have difficulty understanding or visualizing the magic here, do not worry, I felt the same, too, at first. But everything will be clearer near the second half of the book. “Men, love your progeny as God loves his Tiranish children. For, as the Tiranish are made in the image of Feryn, your children are your mirror. He of good character will rule his children well and their quality will speak to his. Govern your children for they are your truest reflection. They are your legacy, and a man’s legacy is as close as he may reach to godhood.”But for those who feel confused and want to understand the magic sooner, I will try to explain them to you now as simply as possible. I will leave out all the author's in-text explanations and visualization for you to read yourself. So treat it this way. Spellograph is a map, or a graph, of the Otherrealm, a realm where the mages draw energy from. Mapping is choosing the precise and correct location in the Otherrealm. After that, siphoning is the act of drawing out the energy from the designated coordinates in the Spellograph. That energy is then used for a myriad of usages like powering the industrial utopia of Tiran, unleashed elemental magic, and more. This is as simple of an explanation as it gets. The in-text magic system is more elaborate and intricate. And I cannot help but applaud M.L. Wang for this display of creativity. The magic was brilliantly created, and every plotline and tribulation resulting from it was totally engaging. “Know your rights, know your spells, and press on past the detractors— or through them, if you must. It’s a skill you’ll need over and over again in the High Magistry.”With the satisfying character arc, the immersive setting, and the seamless blend of magic and science, M.L. Wang gets what I love to read in my SFF books. She gave literal meaning to the "dark" in dark academia. Blood Over Bright Haven is an apt title for the book. As you can probably expect from her adult fantasy books, this is a violent novel with merciless actions. The character's wrath and sorrow will peak. Self-serving and malicious characters will try to aggravate you. Gory scenes are included, and my god, the action scenes... Blood Over Bright Haven don't contain as many battle scenes as The Sword of Kaigen did. But do not take this to mean the book was ever lacking in high-stakes conflict and pulse-pounding tensions. Once the revelations kicked into the narrative, the book was ridiculously unputdownable. I finished this book in two days, and it was worth neglecting every book in my TBR pile for it. I love reading fantasy books where every action has irreplaceable repercussions, and as the intensity keeps ramping up, the climax sequences accomplish one of the most memorable crimson scenes of chaos I have ever read. I cannot help but wish there better be a special edition of Blood Over Bright Haven one day. So many scenes in the book, not just the ending sequences, would benefit from having interior illustrations. I will keep my fingers crossed that day will come. “Because good people can turn desperate when the horrors are upon them— especially people whose culture of plenty has left them with no systems to cope with scarcity or cataclysm. Good people will turn monstrous when it’s down to their survival or someone else’s.”There is not much else to say here. Any more beyond this is just redundant. Order and read this book as soon as possible. The character's story arcs were amazing, the threats felt real, the world-building was well-polished, and there were many beautifully written passages. M.L. Wang accomplished so much in this relatively short one-off standalone novel. It is astounding. Bloody brutal, creative, and intelligently crafted with powerfully heavy-hitting themes on morality and intentions, M.L. Wang's return to the adult fantasy scene signified her skills as an absolutely incredible storyteller. Blood Over Bright Haven is indisputably another standalone masterpiece from M.L. Wang. It is a dark academia fantasy novel at its best. It overtops Babel by R.F. Kuang for me. The fantasy genre is dominated by series. And it is true a terrific one-off standalone fantasy novel is relatively difficult to find. But the greatest kind of standalone fantasy book exists, and it can deliver the high emotions, intensity, and intricacies of a series efficiently and effectively. Blood Over Bright Haven is that kind of standalone book. So bravo, M.L. Wang. For crafting another masterpiece. “Maybe it would be a hundred generations before the sun rose on a life of dignity for their descendants, but the worthwhile run was not the sprint.”You can pre-order this book from: AmazonThe quotes in this review were taken from an ARC and are subject to change upon publication.You can find this and the rest of my reviews at Novel Notions | I also have a Booktube channelSpecial thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing!My Patrons: Alfred, Aliysa, Anastasia, Andrew, Andrew W, Annabeth, Arliss, Barbara, Biskit, Brad, Cade, Casey, Chris, Diana, Donna, Dylan, Edward, Elias, Ellen, Frank, Gary, Gregory, Hamad, Helen, Hunter, Jenn, Jesse, Jimmy Nutts, Joie, Justin, Kristina, Luis, Lufi, Melinda, Michael, Michael, Mike, Miracle, Nicholas, Norbert, Radiah, Samuel, Sarah, Sarah, Scott, Shawn, Tori, Tracy, Wendy, Wick, Xero, Yuri, Zoe.
7231870648	4 1/2 stars. I've barely read any high fantasy books over the last few years, and I've liked even less. I got to a point a few years back where every fantasy started to look the same; same characters and worlds with different names. But I read this book on a whim and it reminded me what great fantasy can be— political machinations, complex and exciting magic systems, and morally grey characters. I immediately started The Sword of Kaigen after finishing this and so far I'd say the M.L. Wang hype is very much deserved.This is a great book in so many ways. Here is why I couldn’t put it down.» Very strong opening chapter. I do love a book that grabs you immediately, and the awful and bloody opening had me horrified and intrigued from the start.» A vicious university setting with rivalries and competition. Fantasy set in academia is one of my favourite things when it's done right. The tensions! The jealousies! I can't look away.» Deeply infuriating sexist society. Why is this a good thing? Because nothing makes me desperate to know what happens next like burning fury. Sciona is the first woman to be a highmage and dealing with her patronizing colleagues and outright dickheads is an exercise in not imploding.» Genuinely interesting magic system. The magic system here is so creative that I didn't mind sitting through explanations of how it works. The use of spellographs into which mages program spells reminded me a lot of computer programming. Such a cool idea!» Awful villains. They made me turn pages so fast in hopes I got to witness their painful deaths.» Social commentary. Behind the propulsive central story, there is a commentary on social class and on how both class and racial stereotyping is used to "other" fellow humans.» A very, very tiny amount of romance. Exactly the right amount for emotional investment without it ever taking over the story.» Sciona. Last, but not least, our protagonist. She is such a flawed, fascinating character, desperate to compete in a world defined by men, but with a lot of her own biases to work through. I like that she isn't entirely likeable. I like that she experiences growth. I am still reeling from some of the shit she goes through in this book.It really is very good and right now I'm feeling that strange tingle of excitement I get when I discover an author with such obvious talent and hopefully many more books to come.Warning for those sensitive to graphic death and (view spoiler)[attempted sexual assault (hide spoiler)].
6812924055	Following The Sword of Kaigen, M.L. Wang proves once again with Blood Over Bright Haven that she's a master at character writing. I could say over and over again that this is one of the best books I've read all year (the best...perhaps?) because the magic system is innovative and intricate, and the pacing is pitch perfect, and the actual structure of the storytelling is incredible, but at the end of the day it's M.L. Wang's characters that set her work apart. I love a book that proves that a character doesn't have to be likeable to be good and the arc the main character goes through in this story is compelling from start to finish. Where does one choose to draw the line in the search for power they've been systematically denied; or, is there a line at all? What does it truly mean to dedicate yourself to truth and the pursuit of knowledge? How do ruling classes commit atrocities while pretending piety and goodness? Are we - and should we - be judged more on our intents or our impacts? And what are we willing to do when our complicity in oppressive systems is put in front of our faces?Blood Over Bright Haven is another M.L. Wang book that will be on my mind for a long, long time. And for what it's worth, it is now the highest rated book club book in the four years I've been hosting it. The majority of ratings were 5 stars (which I don't believe has happened before) and not a single person rated it lower than 4 stars
7307169827	this is my first 6 star read in about a year. i want to demand Goodreads give me the ability to go beyond 5. please I am begging you 5 stars is not enough for me.
6952520574	i will be discussing this book with my therapist
3995854962	This is the best book I’ve read in 2023.Literally: https://youtu.be/sow3PqTblic
7373368255	This is a masterpiece.“It’s not enough to have meant to do good; if you don’t do good, most gods—those of the rivers, the sky, and the fields—don’t care for your motivations. Why should they?”Brutally honest, unique and thought provoking. I knew this was going to be a 5 star when I was not even 100 pages in. It brought so much emotion from me. Absolutely phenomenal. This will be one of my favorite books of the year. “Because good people can turn desperate when the horrors are upon them—especially people whose culture of plenty has left them with no systems to cope with scarcity or cataclysm. Good people will turn monstrous when it’s down to their survival or someone else’s.”
6675231798	4.45! Very close to being a masterpiece! this was so well-crafted and it also gave me major the poppy war vibes while both are very different, the overall vibe and the way the characters think really made me resemble them and I loved it because I loved the poppy war! I initially wanted to read 'The Sword of Kaigen' first but I got an arc of this book and I was so excited!! so obviously I dove into this one first and it's one of the best decisions that I have ever made. It was slow paced but whenever I picked it up, my soul would be consumed because I would actually be breathless by the time I looked up from my screen, it was that captivating, Wang's writing style was perfection it made me feel everything, laced with a thin layer of Hun our was maybe all that I wanted and hoped for because the way it was crafted and thought out was so brilliant that I actually want more, this is such a bittersweet story but a one that has such important themes. My only complain was the pacing but it still so worth the story.Basically, we enter an enriched world where theres this high magistery which is basically fueled with institutional sexism where like theres literally no women and during the admission only one woman get a chance to enter so here we follow our main character Scoia who's just out of the world brilliant and observant and like thinks out of the box and wants to like do well for the future of more woman (this isnt really based on feminism lol but it was an aspect) so she goes there and obviously gets admitted. So like there ever highmage gets a kwen assistant and Kwens our basically the lowest race, possible the 'untouchables' who follow a different religion and out persecuted for that and tirens(?) are like the highmages and the upper-class who treat the Kwens like shit so Sconia gets this really amazing, well informed Kwen named Thomil and omg the things that he unraveled were absolutely amazing. After this event the story starts to progress so muchhh. Theres minimal romance, high institution politics, magic, ruthless fmc, heartbreaking and obviously well themed.Sconia, Our main character is the perfect example of someone brain fed with propaganda to the point where they are so infused with it that they follow it without question and blindly following a religion is also a main theme of this book, the main character is also an example of someone who has been raised to follow a religion without the ability to question it, they are just made to follow it and not question it and like I loved it because Sconia was so brilliant, easily one of the smartest characters and it shows how easily she was manipulated and a major reason for this was everyone she trusted was feeding her this so like it really makes you think how propaganda can be s dangerous but also I loved how she bordered the limits of her potential and sometimes crossed it and with the help of her assistant unlocked the truth that everyone is hiding and I love, love, loved how ambitious she was and how when she set her mind on something she achieved, mercy and second thought be damned (lol runin vibes) but yeah it also showcases how when someone is fueled by anger and hate they dont think twice and act on their impulse to free the minority and often in process forget the innocents that live among them and I feel like this was so complex and so beautifully written!!Thomil, was such an integral part of this story. He was the balance, he was the truth, without hijm we would've blindly followed Sconia along her journey both of us being blind to the atrocities being committed while he was scheming and plotting and helping her, struggling with keeping his niece safe and trying to make their lives better. The complexities that his character provided for our main character were so beautiful I liked how she didnt blindly accept him and went through so many emotions to accept it, felt very realistic and I love Thomil for being the way that he was.The ending was truly heartbreaking, it was so poetic, it was so beauty, it was carnage, it was chaos and it was peace so I am satisfied and I am in love with this book. Overall, I would recommend this!___I am soooo excited for this 🤭🤭 let's see how it goes!! I've heard the best things.___I really thought 'The sword of kaigen' was going to be my first Wang book but then I got an arc of this and it's so beautiful and interesting that this has to be read first!*Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher- Del Rey for an arc of this book.*
6907010270	Why can’t every book be this good! I wish I could give a 6 star rating. M. L. Wang is my favorite author of the year and possibly of all time! This story started off feeling like a dark academia with a fun magic system, but quickly morphed into something with a powerful message. I am in awe of this author’s ability to create a fantasy story that makes me examine my own life. Just outstanding. Absolute perfection.
6680316681	I finished this on the way back home from Glasgow Worldcon.It's an excellent read and I think M.L is due to become a much bigger name than she is now (and she's well known now).The thing (for me) that Wang does best is that she "sees" people and delivers them whole onto the page. She's great at generating strong emotion in a small number of lines, and she understands and uses restraint very well - it works for her rather like the silences in music build the whole. And like, Robin Hobb, she's wonderful when it comes to bringing relationships to life.Her prose is good, but it's the above, combined with top class story telling that I'd highlight.These are all highly commercial skills, and the romance in Blood Over Bright Haven is "more traditional" than the one in The Sword of Kaigen. All reasons I think this book will sell its socks off.For me, The Sword of Kaigen was an even better book, more sophisticated and unexpected, marred by some rough edges at the start and end. This book is far smoother, and it certain does have sophistication - it's far from being on rails. You will almost certainly be surprised by how things turn out, and Wang digs down through different layers of morality and humanity, making us reassess the situtation several times.It's clever, emotional, exciting ... all the good stuff. I highly recommend you give it a go. I hugely enjoyed it!She's another of those authors who bulldozes my ego and makes me admit that I need to do better at this writing game. Join my Patreon Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes..
8017702990	"Truth over delusion. Growth over comfort. God over all." Not a bad book but it didn't work out for me the way I would have hoped, especially in the second half. I really enjoyed the first half especially how intensely it had started. The first chapter was good, it had me in an emotional chokehold. The magic system and world building is quite interesting. I liked how it has thought provoking conversations and themes that go over women's rights, religion and morality. The dark academia vibes are pretty good. But at the same time, it was like there was so much being covered in conversation. It came across as reading more and more lengthy dialogues than actually showing me something. There was too much telling, not enough showing and that took the fun out for me somewhere in the middle. This might not be an issue for everyone but it was for me. Sciona is an ambitious woman and so complex, not the easiest person to like but I find myself admiring her. Because she was flawed and real. She was not afraid to change and grow after being shown the truth and harsh realities of her world and her god. Thomil is someone I absolutely adored. I just wished I had seen more growth. Sure he challenged her occasionally, but he's so gentle and precious, my heart was clenching every time he had a scene. I wasn't too bothered about the fact that the romance is barely a subplot. The story is quite intriguing and didn't really need it. The writing didn't work for me much. The ending was something I liked and did not at the same time. It gave me both a feeling of closure and yet didn't quite satisfy me. Maybe that's how it was intended to be. But it's not the best book I've read in a while and I might be in the minority here. ~•~•~This better be as good as everyone claims it to be 👀
5735305579	slayed boots the house down everyone is deceased
6404649652	Oh no.I've probably mentioned this before, but I'm going to mention it again -- once I clear my Del Rey backlog, I will no longer be requesting any of their titles. We do not vibe.As you may know, I used to be a very snobby high fantasy reader, but lately, I am tired of how white/cishet/male the genre is. As I search for fantasy written by women, preferably BIPOC women, I am continuously disappointed in my East Asian reads.Green eyes are the rarest in the world. A quick search states they are only 2% of the population. So, why is it that so many fantasy novels, namely Del Rey's, written by Asian women, include them? And terrible representations of colonialism?Yes, this is a colonizer romance. Granted, it's a little different in that Sciona, the woman, is from the colonizing party. You may ask, "What makes this a colonizer romance?" and "Why does this offend you so much?"Sciona's people use a form of magic called siphoning. This steals the energy from a different source. This source comes from the natural resources of a neighboring nation, specifically, (view spoiler)[its living beings, including the humans (hide spoiler)]. This is called Blight, but what it is is a travesty. If you can't "see" colonization, and are from the west, boy, do I have some interesting news for you.I truly don't go into these books wanting to hate them. I want to be surprised. Sciona is not smart. She is annoying, petulant, and very sheltered, even when she thinks she is the smartest person in the room. Thomil, her Kwen assistant, is seen as less than and other, because he comes from the lands with Blight. Their working dynamic gives me the ick. Their "romance" gives me the ick. Everything gives me the ick.Colonizer romance is not "just" enemies to lovers. Enemies to lovers must be equal in standing. This is oppressor/oppressed. It's giving Stockholm Syndrome. It's not cute.📱 Thank you to NetGalley and Del Rey
6010272902	2.5 stars.I have to admit that I was less than impressed with this book. The magic system was cool, but the rest of the book left a lot to be desired. The "big twist" was so obvious that I figured it out in the first chapter and struggled to believe that, in a society filled people who study magic on a daily basis, only the tiniest handful of their "elite" actually ever figure out the "big secret." The handling of the sexism theme was so ham-fisted that it felt like the author was going down a checklist of "all the sexist things that men can say to women" and trying to cram every item into every single conservation. One of the villains basically turned into a mustache-twirling cartoon character two-thirds of the way through the story, and he (view spoiler)[sexually assaults the protagonist (hide spoiler)] completely out of the blue in the third act, an event that the book tries to make sense of by literally back-filling information after the fact.The plot has some strange pacing and development issues. There are lulls where there shouldn't be, and the plot progresses unevenly. And while the climax is kind of satisfying in the way that it deals with the antagonists, I don't like how open-ended the conclusion is. I felt that it could've been way more definitive than that, given the setup for the climax. I wish I had liked this book a lot more than I did, because I know that people really love this author's other novel, The Sword of Kaigen. But this book just didn't land well with me. Lots of cool concepts, but the execution could've been a lot better.
6404989180	Lord, I don't even know how to start this review.Since everyone I know loves ML Wang's books, I decided to request the trad pubbed arc thinking that this would be a new fave.Yeah, so... That was a huge mistake.This was a buddy read with my fellow hater from another mother, Mai, and I was glad that we had the exact same thoughts throughout the novel.Mine was mainly: Who is this novel written for?While I'm always down to support marginalized authors, I've noticed that ever since my favorite author, RF Kuang, started to dominate the bestseller lists, there have been several clones popping up in SFF. A lot of debut authors think they can handle heavy themes such as institutionalized racism and colonialism/anti-colonialism with an ounce of Kuang's finesse, but then they let me down with their obvious lack of understanding with such complex topics.I'd label Blood Over Bright Haven as either Babel-lite or a Babel wannabe. But make it about a white savior.As a fan of Babel, I honestly don't care too much if a novel is heavy-handed with its themes. This novel though... Sure, it was heavy-handed, but it also made the extremely huge mistake of holding the reader's hand by literally writing out all of its themes like I was 18 years old again enrolled in Sociology 101.I mean, this is cool for readers who never knew that SFF can be a mirror for societal issues, but for longtime readers and fans of SFF, this book felt like it was talking down to the reader.Hell, even for newbies to this genre, I'm pretty sure you can easily figure out this book's themes without having the author treat you like a child. Especially since this is supposed to be a novel geared towards adults.For example:Kwen were dangerous beasts when it meant tightening control over Tiranish women. Tiranish women were damsels when it meant tightening control over Kwen. They were all hapless children when it meant denying them access to power—and it was that lack of power that made them helpless, made them monstrous, made them subject to the benevolent Tiranishman, who would save them from their deficiencies. Each gear turned tidily into its neighbor in a soul-grinding system designed to sustain the men who had named the pieces and made them so: damsel, devil, servant, wife.Not only that, the main POV character, Sciona, was insufferable. There was no redeemable quality about her. Was there even character growth by the end? Not in my opinion. I love morally grey characters as much as anyone else on BookTok/Bookstagram, but she was so narrow-minded and one-dimensional that it was difficult to root for her, much less like her.Literally everything she did was self-serving. Even the major event she pulled at the end was self-serving.The entire time I was reading this arc, I was wholly in denial that a BIPOC author would write about a white savior/martyr character. My god. Do better. There was no one else to stand up for Thomil's people, for Carra's future, for the sanctity of Truth in the face of this insidious lattice of lies. And Thomil? Poor Thomil didn't deserve to be saddled with an idiot of a main character. The author really tried to make his character complex, but he felt lumped in with the faceless mass that was the stand-in for the Indigenous/POC community in this novel.Speaking of that, it was really uncomfortable for me to read about a marginalized community's role as the defacto downtrodden, second/third class citizens when readers are introduced to only TWO characters from that community who are given names and are mostly well-written (Thomil and his niece, Carra).And next to that, the novel introduces us to handfuls of the white folks upper echelons of society who are white majority coded, along with their names, their roles in society, their personalities, their relationships to each other, etc. As Sciona grew closer to Thomil, why weren't we introduced to more Kwen folk?I didn't think this would be an issue, but in the second half, the Kwen become a literal riotous, bloodthirsty mob with only revenge on their mind. Which, well... If this was supposed to be a book about the Kwen being treated like lowly members of society, it definitely got the point across well. We get no names, no introductions, no personalities to this zombie horde that starts attacking the Tiranish and their property. A second shock wave crashed through the crowd, and Sciona heard more bones snap, more cries of agony. But the Kwen didn't stop coming. Why should they? Their ancestral land was ravaged, their kin Blighted, their future stolen. What did they have to lose? And who in the wide world could tell them to stand down? It felt so wrong to paint them that way. Like the author couldn't be bothered to give the Kwen the same level of respect that she gave the Tiranish. And even though they were the last Caldonnae, Thomil and Carra felt cut off from the rest of the larger Kwen community because we were never introduced to anyone else.The vibes were so off.Like I asked above: Who is this novel written for?Thank you to Del Rey and NetGalley for this arc.
8135588018	Infinity stars. One of the best books I have ever read.
7768173444	This book completely destroyed me. Thank you.
7818109434	A young woman defies the odds (systemic sexism) and passes the necessary exam to work for the municipal power company. Sciona is a product of her environment (xenophobia) so while all her casual racism is intentional and rather the point, that doesn’t make it any easier to read without making this face 😬. Thomil is a survivor of a TRULY gutting first chapter (rapid organic breakdown) and being the target of Sciona’s many airy “isn’t he stupid” laughs. This book is about both magical typewriters and resource exploitation, protective barriers and cognitive dissonance. There is a splash of romance but it isn’t really necessary — the stakes were already mountain-high and needed no further sweetening — and a healthy heaping of slap-in-the-face reality. You’ll be pretty bummed (ugly crying) by the end, even if you’re cynical, which is (I think) the mark of some good writing. It’s not a happy story, but it’s not a happy world right now, so who can blame it?
7111071592	Privileged, brainwashed and selfish woman discovers basic human decency and still manages to make it about her. God, how to review this book, especially with do many people loving it? This was an overly simplistic fantasy interpretation of institutional racism, colonialism, sexism, indigenous history, cultural theft and religious brainwashing. The Kwen are a stand-in for native americans, Tiran is the land that is built on the blood of indigenous people. I get what it was trying to do, yet it was all so over-explained, so blatantly obvious, so in your face, that it felt like the author wrote this for twelve year olds. If you had a checklist of ‘most used sexist and racist comments’ and held it next to this book, you’d have a full list by the end of it. There was nothing subtle about this read, and the info-dumping on the magic system made it a slog to get through. There was virtually no world-building and almost all characters are incredibly one-dimensional, with zero character growth. The worst part is that this book is supposed to ‘prove’ that marginalized communities are people too, yet we only get to know two (!) characters. But the main character, Sciona, was really the icing on the cake. Every time I thought she couldn’t get more despicable, she managed exceed my expectations. If white saviour complex was a book, this would be the one.
6092888021	M.L. Wang has seemingly done it again. From the start this dark academia story was an emotional roller coaster.The characters? Top tierThe Magical system? Quite insane, absolutely insane.M.L. Wang you can’t keep getting away with this but congrats on another 5 star read!
7374731749	hmm idk about that ending…
6513321369	Did I finish this book, or did it finish me? 6 ⭐️ forever. This has quickly become a very important story to me. Please don’t miss this plot when you read it.
7054114689	5 Stars✨M.L. Wang has done it againAfter reading The Sword of Kaigen, I went into Blood Over Bright Haven with sky-high expectations, and wow it did not disappoint. This book has genuinely altered my life. In the words of Xanni, call it an ugly twink the way it cannot be topped. 🔥Though this isn’t the same type of fantasy as The Sword of Kaigen, it stands shoulder to shoulder with it. Perhaps even surpassing it. Blood Over Bright Haven is a dark academia fantasy that follows a woman who earns a place in a prestigious order of mages, only to unravel secrets about the magic system that fundamentally change her worldview.What makes this book exceptional is that it excamines the cost of progression and the value of impact vs intention. One of my favorite aspects was its realism. Too often, fantasy books shy away from depicting prejudices that would logically exist in their settings. Here, the author doesn’t flinch. The main character lives in an intensely misogynistic world, where even her groundbreaking academic achievements can’t shield her from constant belittlement and dehumanization by her male colleagues.In this setting, there’s also a significant refugee population facing systemic prejudice. Despite the protagonist’s own experiences of oppression as a woman, she doesn’t fully question or challenge the broader societal bias against refugees. Instead, she perpetuates these assumptions, which reflects the way people can internalize and uphold the very systems that harm them. This makes the story feel brutally honest and layered. It’s uncomfortable yet profoundly engaging.The magic system and worldbuilding are nothing short of breathtaking, but it’s the moral complexity of the characters that will stay with me. If you’re a fan of dark academia (and i mean DARK) or fantasy that doesn’t sugarcoat its truths, then i highly recommend this book._____________________Pre-read:When I said, I would buy any book this queen writes, I meant it!!! Plus I bought this as hardback and if your Canadian you know why that’s a big deal
7502898323	This broke me… in the best way possible
7314421879	Truth over delusion. Growth over comfort. God over all.M.L. Wang depicts an unflinching representation of colonialism with her magic system in Blood Over Bright Haven. Her stark world-building provides a look at not only conservative sexism through Sciona's eyes as she becomes the first ever female Highmage in the Magistry, but also at racism through Thomil's POV who migrated to this so-called 'Bright Haven' Tiran when his tribe could no longer survive in the outer cold world. The characters are undeniably rich - Sciona can be applauded for striving to carve a path for women through the sexism; she can be criticized for failing to appreciate the working women around her just because they weren't academic; and she can be hated for her implicit racism against the janitor-turned-assistant Thomil; but she has to be given credit for learning to respect their opinions and agree with their arguments as she grows through the book. Thomil likewise is intricately sketched as he tries to balance preserving aspects of his tribe with himself and his niece while surviving in a city that considers them subhuman. The book on the whole packs a lot in its relative size and the immersive writing coupled with a grand plot prompts digesting it in slow bursts, especially when the plot goes in a direction you don't want it to, but can't fault given the circumstances. It is recommended as a thought provoking fantasy read, and given the author's insight into the human ego as well as emotions, I'll keep an eye out for her future work!I will not turn my gaze, though Light burn me.Thanks to NetGalley and the Random House publishing group - Ballantine/ Del Ray for an advanced copy of this book, the review is entirely honest. 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟[One star for the premise and the whole book; One star for the characters; One star for the world-building; 3/4 star for the story arc and plot; 3/4 star for the writing - 4 1/2 stars in total, rounded up to Five stars.]
6543129767	RATING BREAKDOWNCharacters: 5⭐️Setting: 5⭐️Plot: 5⭐️Themes: 5⭐️Emotional Impact: 3⭐️Personal Enjoyment: 5⭐️Total Rounded Average: 4.75⭐️If you're going to tackle writing about oppression and supremacy, this is how you do it. M.L. Wang continues to weave themes into her stories without oversimplification or trite solutions. She manages to deliver hopeful narratives, even when the material is bleak. Here, she takes on sexism, capitalism, colonialism, racism, and classism with her brilliant tact. And for good measure, she also drops in an ethics conversation that still has me thinking, regarding intent vs. consequences.Just from a story-telling perspective, Blood Over Bright Haven has a unique and interesting setting; one of, if not the, best magic systems I've ever read; and compelling characters wrapped up in a plot that keeps you turning pages. I love the coding-like typewriters that are magic conduits! The academic setting was scrumptious. And the unlikable FMC who grows has got to be one of my favorite character arc structures.I'm still reeling about the ethical weight of intentions vs. consequences when people take action. This question is dropped in the middle of the narrative and beautifully develops Thomil and Sciona's characters by showing what they believe on a theoretical level. It gives the reader something to analyze as their beliefs are tested in small and large ways throughout the story.Finally, I am so pleased that in a story where there is no right answer, the message is that maybe someone else has a better answer than you do. Healing can come through surrender, trust, and hope. There is a letting go that can have profound impact. My only note is that this story did not pack the emotional punch that The Sword of Kaigen did. For that reason, it isn't my favorite book she's written, but I cannot find fault with it. It is a clean and satisfying story about a corrupt system and the unsustainability of it. It illustrates how the average citizen can be both ignorant and complicit, and how one can be both part of the problem and the solution. Love can change the game. Ego is its own kind of evil magic, casting the most unreasonable delusions. I could go on. There are so many takeaways because this woman understands NUANCE.If you like Dark Academia, and fiction that offers insight into the complexity of the issues we face, I highly recommend this!
7087335251	M.L. Wang did it again. As a fangirl of The Sword of Kaigen, I had high hopes for this book. I didn’t even read the summary. So I had no idea what I was going into. But that didn’t matter because it was excellent. This was fantastic. Gripping from the first page. Complex and unique magic system. At first, I was so confused by the magic, but I understood it more as I read and it’s become one of the best written magic systems I’ve read. This story was well-written, intense, and dark. Wang covered so many topics but it never felt too convoluted— maybe because they’re all intertwined: sexism, colonialism, capitalism, racism. The best thing about this story and the topics it discusses, is that it shows that almost nothing is black and white. Things are complicated, one solution for some may be a punishment for others. It presents tough questions and shows realistic outcomes of the struggle with humanity.I don’t know what else to say without being spoilery. Yes, the FMC is unlikable and that’s very important to the story. So even if you’re annoyed with her, that’s fine, that’s expected, don’t quit because of that. This is such a worthwhile read both if you want an excellent, standalone fantasy novel, but also because you’re a human, and there’s much to learn here.
6444994611	If I had to describe this book with one word, it would be intense. I wasn’t very “convinced” by it when I first started reading, mostly because the main character isn’t pleasant – but, now, I think that it was very important for her not to be, for she perfectly incarnated the mind and the ideas of every other Tiranish man. Of course, she was intrinsically different from them and she faced unique challenges – and, being a woman myself, that wasn’t pleasant to read as well –, but, deep down, she still wanted what they wanted, she still wanted to be one of them, and she still shared their prejudices. Eventually, she changed and I started appreciating her – not as much as I appreciated Thomil and Carra, but still, her character development was touching. I believe that, even though it doesn’t make for the most pleasant reading experience, her unpleasant personality is quite fundamental to understanding the evil, corrupted mechanisms of the world portrayed, for it perfectly shows the ugliness of said world. One thing that really got to me was how deeply connected to the character I was, how much I cared for them and their survival and how much I hoped for an happy ending. It’s no surprise, then, how much I cried towards the end. And, even though it wasn’t what I’d have wanted to read, the story really stayed true to itself, it was as brutal as it was honest and that was beautiful: it didn’t feel forced or fake, it was as raw and blunt as it could be. I don’t really know at what point they started meaning so much to me, because I don’t recall any chapter being particularly striking, I think that my affection grew gradually, with every setback and horror we witnessed. Frankly, this book made me very sad, probably because I kept comparing what I was reading to the real world, but, sometimes, this kind of slap in the face is very much needed.
6534980054	audio: 5 stars SO SO happy I did this on audio it made the experience so much better!plot: 5 stars are you kidding?????? M.L. Wang continues to serve absolute bangers👏 First with The Sword of Kaigen, which is probably one of my favorite fantasies ever with one of the BEST FMCs to ever exist, and now with this MASTERPIECE featuring yet another INCREDIBLE FMC. 👏 Not only was this wonderfully thought out with one hell of magic system, had excellent world-building imo, and featured fleshed out characters, but it also touched on so many important themes like women's rights, misogyny, religion, discrimination, right and wrong, and so much more. This book challenges you, as a reader, to wonder how you would react in such circumstances. The plot here is very reminiscent of current world events where some countries are doing unspeakable things to either remain in power or gain more power. So, THIS HIT DEEP. The FMC Sciona, was a force to be reckoned with. She was intelligent, strong and brave but also flawed in a way we are all flawed. The way we sometimes agree with a norm simply because it is what everyone does, the way we don't challenge authority because we might be scared or worried about our own well being. Sciona had those flaws but best believe she did not let those flaws govern her. Truly what an incredible character she was. The MMC Thomin was the perfect counterpart to Sciona; patient, understanding but also willing to challenge her despite his rank. I loved their dynamic so much🤧 I really think that if someone wants to get into high fantasy, M.L Wang is where you should start. Her writing is beautiful yet so easy to digest. It is not at all overwhelming or hard to follow. If you want your fantasies to feature formidable yet vulnerable fmcs with a plot to challenge you, READ HER BOOKS! This will definitely be one of the best books of the year for me.😌 Thank you QUEEN WANG 🧎‍♀️-------------------------------------------------------pre-readStarting the year off with the QUEEN M.L Wang 🧎‍♀️
7563547290	i have put this review off for so long because, to my dismay, the further out from reading this book, the less i like it. it's a me problem, i know.i HATE admitting that, especially with how adored this book is. this was a wonderfully dark, twisted, saddening, and important fantasy. i do think this is a great read still, no matter what; however, it's not one of my favorites. to anyone who wants to read this, the magic system is incredibly well done and especially unique. i LOVED the magic system. the political system is, much like real life, unjust and uncaring. once again, this is an important read that touches on many heavy topics. but... i really wish the story did our boy Thomil justice. i really would've enjoyed more insight from his POV and his peoples' POV. the ending and i did not really get along. not that the ending didn't FIT the story, because it did, i just didn't really like it?once again... a me problem. yet, this is still a story that is memorable, important, and highly unique.
7971312257	Making my year-end top ten list for sure. This one is breathtaking.
8016816815	Wiedziałam, że to będzie dobre, ale nie sądziłam, że aż tak dobre
5587783034	I've read a lot of SFF books about colonization, exploitation, and systemic oppression. I've read a lot of SFF books about terrible empires built on those things. I don't think I've ever read a book where that truth and its reckoning feels this heavy, where the weight and the burden of knowledge is genuinely and realistically impossible to carry, because almost like a Lovecraftian monster, to truly look at the depths of the depravity of "civilization" would be madness-inducing. If any of us were to look around us and seriously hold the knowledge of how everything around us came to be there - the unethical labor practices, the factory farming, the deforestation, a dozen other evils that stack on top of each other to put, say, a slice of pizza on a disposable plate - if we genuinely wrapped our heads around every piece of the puzzle that makes up our daily comfort, we would sit in a corner and scream. We would be incapacitated.That's really all I'm going to say; that's what this book is about. Not in its entirety, of course, there's actually a ton going on, but that feeling is what I'm left with. I finished reading this a while ago now and I've been letting it marinate hoping that I'll figure out how to properly review it, but I actually think this is one where it's better to know as little as possible going into it. If you know M. L. Wang at all, you'll know to expect incredibly nuanced character work and a brilliantly intricate magic system. This is perfect for fans of Babel, and the worldbuilding will appeal to anyone who loved Fullmetal Alchemist. I also think you'll love this if you enjoyed the Final Strife, although they're very different stories.I figured out early in the book what the terrible twist to the "utopia" would be, and felt pretty clever for it, but learning the truth actually isn't the point at all. The point is what we do with it.
7428892538	✩ 5 stars ✩ What to Expect:➼ Dark Secrets➼ Power, Privilege & Oppression ➼ Fierce FMC➼ Sexism & Feminist Themes ➼ Mages➼ Unique Magic System➼ Dark Academia ➼ Standalone ➼ Narrated by Moira Quirk➼ Third Person POVI really haven’t known how to review this one, but this is a story that will stick with me for a long time. I read it on the 4th of July when I was feeling pretty bummed about the state of things in the U.S., and it did not help cheer me up at all. 😆 The things they were doing were completely heinous, unconscionable and amoral, but they weren’t that big of a stretch from our current reality. I’m sad to say that I drew a lot of parallels from this story to the way the people in power in our country operate. We may not have magical powers to Lord over people, but if we did, I have no doubt they’d be used to benefit the few with no regard for the impact they might have on the many. I really liked the way both MC’s were depicted and how they interacted with each other as they began to uncover the dark truths of their society. They came from such different backgrounds and I loved the push and pull as they worked to both be heard by and better understand each other. The ending made me feel so many things, but most of all I felt the sense that it was a battle they would have to continue to fight for many years to come. This was a phenomenal read. It was everything I was told it would be and more. Don’t skip this one friends. It will break your heart, but it’s worth the pain. 💔✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼ ҉ ✼Pre-read: Really excited for this one! I’ve heard only great things! Fingers cross for 5 stars! 🤞🏻≪ ◦ ❖ ◦ ≫Connect with me on Instagram
6596213464	Blog | Instagram Rating: 4 stars ‘Blood Over Bright Haven’ raises fascinating moral dilemmas and social commentaries, making it a powerful and memorable read.Cover: 🌟🌟🌟Writing: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Storyline: 🌟🌟🌟🌟Main character(s): 🌟🌟🌟🌟Secondary characters: 🌟🌟🌟Romance: 🌟🌟🌟Narration & Audio: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟What struck me first was the vivid similes and rich writing style that brought this story to life. The world-building was also impressive, packed with intricate history, politics, and magic. However, some aspects went over my head, and the information is mainly presented in chunks at the start of the story. Still, the elaborate world allowed for complex themes such as misogyny, systemic oppression, prejudice, power and legacy to be deeply explored and provided a solid foundation for thought-provoking social commentaries. These compelling themes were the best part of the novel for me. "Truth over delusion. Growth over comfort." The storyline kicks off with an intriguing and intense start that provides essential context before Sciona’s journey unfolds. I enjoyed the twists and turns of the story, even though the biggest reveal was pretty easy to predict. The dark academia vibe is also brilliantly executed, offering a twisted backdrop of fierce rivalries, nepotism and sabotage. As the story builds toward its climax, tension mounts, and the realistic consequences of Sciona’s choices made it all the more memorable. Sciona herself is a remarkably complex and flawed antihero. She is self-absorbed, ambitious, power-hungry, yet also strangely naive. Her unyielding drive and struggle within a misogynistic society made it impossible not to root for her. Her ability to wrestle with conflicting viewpoints and relentless pursuit of truth also appealed to me, especially given how challenging it can be to confront personal biases and take a stand for a better society. "it's much easier to tell yourself you're a good person than it is to actually be one."The secondary characters were far less memorable, and even Thomil didn't leave a lasting impression. Sadly, this affected the light romance that unfurled, as I was not entirely convinced by the connection between the characters. In contrast, Moira Quirk's narration was a standout. Quirk's delivery nicely complemented the somewhat formal writing style and conveyed emotional range during the dialogue between characters.You can also find more of my thoughts and discussion questions on my blog!
7539727108	BookTube channel with my awesome brother, Ed - The Brothers Gwynne My personal BookTube channel - William Gwynne M.L. Wang has done it again! Another banger of a standalone! Blood Over Bright Haven is too good. It kept me up late for a few nights in a row, so I am now in need for recovery…. but it was worth it!Last year I joined the train of Sword of Kaigen lovers. It was character-driven epic fantasy with an intimate core and SEVERAL scenes that go down in the best I have ever had the pleasure of reading. So, Blood Over Bright Haven had a lot to live up to. It somehow did… but in a very different way to what I expected.Now, what is Blood Over Bright Haven about? The city of Tiran is an industrial utopia that has flourished because of the wonders of magic. But, beyond its borders the Blight kills almost everything, sending the tribes and clans of the land fleeing in desperate hope to the city. With this context, we join Sciona as she attempts to be the first female mage admitted into the High Magistry. Only one woman is given a chance every ten years, so Sciona has a future of conflict ahead. Even if she succeeds, everyone will be watching, hoping for her to flounder and fail...“It’s much easier to tell yourself you’re a good person than it is to actually be one.”Blood Over Bright Haven gripped me straight away. Just as with Sword of Kaigen, the prose is smooth and immersive, striking a fantastic balance between introducing you to a new, very unique world without losing you in the process. I am usually a character driven reader, and Blood Over Bright Haven does not disappoint in that department. Sciona is infatuated with the idea of legacy. She faces countless demons, yet fights through these through employing an iron-will as a defence mechanism. She is often blind to her flaws, such as her disregard for those who cannot help her improve her craft, yet she is still magnetic to follow. A force of nature who shows a flawed society through being flawed herself. Her dynamic and evolving relationship with Thomil, a man of the lowest social strata, was nothing short of brilliant (plenty more superlatives for this story incoming). M.L. Wang just has a sense of character that is not only explored through narration, but also through seamless dialogue that I think would transcribe so well to the screen. Yet another incredibly successful element to Blood Over Bright Haven.I usually do not like hard magic systems, but it is done here just brilliantly. It adds rich layers to the plot, and allows you to go on a journey with the characters as they study more about magic and learn at the same time. It may be blasphemy… but I would say Blood Over Bright Haven deals with a hard magic system far more effectively than anything I’ve read by Brandon Sanderson. It really showed M.L. Wang’s talent. It is not there just to show-off. It enriches the plot and the themes and is used for character development. What more can you ask for?“It doesn’t matter how big, or strong, or pretty you are in magic. It doesn’t matter how much people like you. With my fingers on the keys of a spellograph, if I can just think hard enough, I’m the most powerful person in the world. That’s a feeling a woman just isn’t going to get anywhere else.”Blood Over Bright Haven provides a very obvious social commentary. I have heard it labelled as “blunt”. I agree. But I don’t see that is an objectively bad thing. With the society we are thrown into, not being blunt would be ingenue. I would say it does not lecture you, but there are clear messages. It is quite heavy with topics such as sexism and racism, so you do need to be in a certain headspace to pick this up. But, if you feel prepared for that, I could not recommend this enough.M.L. Wang has now written two fantasy standalones that rank in my favourite books of all-time. I would say Sword of Kaigen has higher peaks, but Blood Over Bright Haven is far more consistent. There is not a single chapter that I would say was not great. The story was just relentlessly gripping, and refused to let go.This is a dark academia fantasy standalone driven by themes of misogyny, legacy, fame, duty, racism and passion. We have extremely flawed characters that we somehow still sympathise for and root for, and an intimate story that gradually grows to an exceptional, climactic conclusion. M.L. Wang somehow makes fantasy standalones look easy!5/5 STARS
5694066638	4.5/5 but I'll round it up for the bold ending.Dark, disturbing, and utterly addictive, Blood Over Bright Haven is an absolute must-read. I’m not well-versed in the dark academia subgenre, but you can’t go wrong with this page-turner. It delves into topics of imperialism, racism, elitism, and supremacy, but it’s a damn good book above all. The City of Tiran is impressive. Enclosed within a magical Barrier, it offers its citizens comfort and industrialization made possible by magic. Refugees from the outside, however, can’t expect equal treatment, and they usually scrape by in factories or doing menial jobs. Those who live outside? Dead or soon to be dead through Blight. This lethal light appears from nowhere and strips away layer after layer of human and animal bodies until nothing but blood remains.Within the confines of the walls, Sciona Freynan has the potential to make history as the first female highmage. She just needs to pass the final exam. Since work, studies, and magic are her sole priorities and she lacks social skills or real interest in other human beings, she feels she can do it. Driven by insatiable ambition and hunger for glory and gifted with a brilliant (if obsessive) mind, she has no equals. There’s just one problem - she’s a woman. And most mages believe women are not destined for greatness.To avoid revealing any crucial plot points, I’ll keep the synopsis brief. Wang gradually unveils the true origin of magic and sheds light on the mysterious Otherrealm - from which mages draw energy to power the city. Expect the unexpected. It’s dark academia, after all, where appearances are often deceiving. Blood Over Bright Haven avoids gratuitous violence but contains graphic scenes that may unsettle some readers. It excels at stripping its protagonist from her core beliefs while making her understand the monstrous secrets of Tiran. There’s, of course, a man and a potential for romance. Sciona faces many obstacles, and it is through the other point of view character, Thomil—a Kwen refugee—that we understand how limited her choices are. Their chemistry and dynamics are great. But here’s the catch - we’re talking about M.L. Wang’s book. In The Sword of Kaigen, she has proven to be unafraid of defying readers’ expectations and making bold, heart-wrenching choices. I have issues with parts of the story and the characterization of one of the bad guys, but the ending left me speechless and deserves all the stars.A word about the magic. I’m not usually a fan of magic systems, but I loved how similar to coding it was. How logical and elegant it felt. Bravo! The characterization of most players is top-notch, too.The book itself is relatively short (around 120,000 words) and tells a complete story. It skilfully explores themes of gender injustice, racism, faith, and consequences of intentions. All while providing suspense, action, and personal drama. The second half of the book is driven by anger. A righteous anger that serves as a catalyst for societal change, igniting a fire that propels the characters and their world forward.To provide a balanced perspective, it is worth mentioning that some readers may take issue with the somewhat simplistic depiction of certain characters and the use of narrative shortcuts to convey the message. Personally, I found myself emotionally engaged, and these aspects did not hinder my overall enjoyment of the story.In short, Blood Over Bright Haves is excellent. It tells a complete story, provides a satisfying ending, and is an emotional rollercoaster as the narrative takes bold risks and delivers gut-wrenching twists. Go ahead, give it a read.
5900895234	ML Wang should be talked about in the same breath as any of the fantasy greats. First, with the Sword of Kaigen, and now with Blood Over Bright Haven, she has crafted two masterpiece standalone books that have become two of my favorite books ever. Would you believe me if I told you that this 516 page book effectively explores the themes of misogyny, racism, religion, family, ego, legacy, and morality? Because IT DOES.All while having a plot that is extremely engaging and addicting, characters that are believable and multi-layered, and a world and magic system that are entirely unique. I mean, COME ON. WHO THE HELL CAN DO ALL OF THAT IN ONE BOOK???? WHO?????????????The most important part of this book is that ML Wang is unflinching in the way she explores topics and themes. She doesn’t take the easy way out like a lot of fantasy stories do. Her portrayals of emotion and change are brutally honest. Sometimes change is not easy. Sometimes the world cannot be fixed with words. Sometimes, all that you can do is move forward. Every time I thought I knew where our narrative or emotional threads were headed in this story, I was proven wrong. And I LOVED it.I’ll start with specifically talking about Sciona, who is our main character in this story. She is a woman of determination and obsession, and I kind of thought that I knew where her story was headed based on these things. She has to fight and scrap for everything she earns in this society dominated by men, and her struggle was already one that I found compelling. For the sake of spoilers, I will say that she is so so much more than those qualities. She’s a complex human, as we all are, and due to the nature of this story, we get to explore her psyche in a way I wasn’t expecting. While at times I felt disconnected from her emotional journey, by the end I felt like I understood her. Just as with Misaki in the Sword of Kaigen, I never could have predicted where she ended her emotional arc.And then there’s Thomil, who I felt emotionally attached to literally in chapter 1. I truly can’t say much about him without spoilers, but I will say that I love him very very much and that’s all you need to know.As for the magic and the world - it’s fucking awesome. The magic is basically coding, but with magical elements. If that sounds boring to you, I promise that it’s not. Everything is explained in a digestible way, and the magic is absolutely crucial to both character and plot in this story. It also functions to power the entirety of this world, which, if I had to describe it, is steampunk adjacent. Think Fullmetal Alchemist or Arcane. The fact that Wang created such an original story with such an original world AGAIN… I’m at a loss for words.I’m actually having a hard time collecting my thoughts because there is just so much within these pages that could be discussed. It’s safe to say, however, that I consider ML Wang to be one of my favorite authors ever now.
6658307827	Gosh, why is it such a struggle to put into words how much I ATE THIS UP? FINISHED IT, LOVED IT, and now I need this book in every edition possible!Set in an industrial utopia governed by high mages who source their power from the Other Realm, this story takes us through the journey of Sciona, the first-ever female High Mage. As she enters this elite order, she uncovers a secret that could forever change the practice of magic. The depth of themes in this novel is at times hard to read, prejudice, oppression, sexism, religion, and the corruption of patriarchal societies, also has themes of hope through found family and the dream of a better society..The magic system is nothing short of incredible, thoroughly detailed from spellcasting to the mechanisms of siphoning magic, even down to the spellographs. Admittedly, some aspects went over my head at times because your girl here is surviving on two brain cells, but the amount of thought and structure in the magic system deserves applause!Sciona is a protagonist worth rooting for as she navigates a male-dominated society and struggles against ingrained barriers. Her journey felt painfully real which highlights the very real frustration women face in traditionally male spaces. F*ck the patriarchy! Sciona is deeply relatable, but also flawed, selfish, and occasionally frustrating, which made her human. She has real desires, ambitions, and vulnerabilities, all of which brought her character to life.One of the best aspects of the book is the dynamic between Sciona and Thomil, her lab janitor turned assistant. Thomil’s tragic backstory hits hard from chapter one. Despite his status as lower class and Sciona’s own struggles with acceptance, the two form an unlikely alliance. When they uncover a conspiracy, their conflicting perspectives on how to handle it create tension and depth that I absolutely loved.This story is beautifully and well thought out, with complex worldbuilding, a well-developed and detailed magic system, and flawed yet relatable characters. I’m not usually one to cry over books, but tears were shed! From chapter one to that last chapter, this book pulled at my emotions in a way few others have.Highly recommend if you’re ready to be emotionally destroyed and left staring at the wall for the unforeseeable future. Thank you Del Rey for this ARC in exchange for an honest review!
5661632175	Possibly the best standalone I’ve ever read!
5383703827	Another great stand-alone fantasy novel by M.L. Wang! Though I didn’t love this one as much as Sword of Kaigen , I still feel that Blood Over Bright Haven has a lot to offer: a compelling dark academia setup, an interesting and well-written magic system, and on-point, well-integrated commentary about sexism and gender. Though the book is somewhat long, I finished it in two days because the prose was so readable and I wanted to know what would happen next.The main reason I give this book four stars instead of five is because the first half or so of the story felt a tad predictable to me. It came across as almost didactic, and the parallels between a privileged person learning about their privilege from a marginalized person (e.g., I was thinking of a white person learning about their white privilege from a person of color) almost felt too obvious to me. This element of the novel slightly redeemed itself toward the second half when Sciona started to recognize her own problematic behavior and self-correct.I will say though, the last 20% of Blood Over Bright Haven had me *shaken*. It really saved the novel for me. Things happened that I did not expect though felt so satisfying from a plot and character development perspective. I felt genuinely moved by the characters and their growth. To avoid spoilers, all I’ll say is *that* is how you put your money where your mouth is in terms of allyship, standing with people with less privilege than you, etc. All in all, a solid four-star read.
4831069060	5 starsif i could, i would have rated it 134340 stars, because 5 do not do this book justice. by my nature, i am bound to enjoy any book that delves into imperialism & exploitation of power and critiques them, so it was no wonder i enjoyed blood over haven so much (the novel, in some ways, reminded me of babel by rf kuang, which i loved).as for the book itself, ml wang has this inexplicable ability to keep my attention glued to every page of hers and this novel was not an exception, seeing as i have read it in under 24 hours. i literally cannot find a single flaw here, even if i wanted to. every word was used purposefully and was telling a story, character development was done beautifully, the plot was incredible, the ending was perfect, and i *loved* reading about the topics explored here (and the conversations various characters had about them), seeing as it is something my country has experienced, too.overall, irrefutable 5 stars and i recommend this book to anyone and everyone !! it is a work of art.
7355968804	This was brilliant - a masterpiece. I don't think I will ever forget this story. I simply cannot give this anything lower than 5⭐ It is so beautifully written.. and the meaning? So f*cking powerful.Quote below (hidden for spoilers)(view spoiler)["Sick or sound, good or evil, she was still Sciona Frynan. And Sciona Freynan didn't slow down. Sciona Freynan would be remembered." (hide spoiler)]
6953430791	holy bloody hell, i am simultaneously speechless yet have so much to say about this masterpiece of a novel.instant five stars and new favorite read of 2025, AND autobuy author — thank GOD i have sword of kaigen to read next! i’m kicking myself for waiting this long to read ANYTHING by m l wang.as the events in blood over bright haven unravelled, i saw so many similarities from one of my all time favorite series, full metal alchemist/brotherhood. sciona is the first female highmage in tiran, and despite working hard to pave the way for other young women to become high ranking mages instead of simply educators, she is also extremely prejudiced and heavily blinded by the propaganda her theocratic government spews about the kwen people and their culture. i absolutely loved seeing sciona not only acknowledge her prejudices and learn about the kwen culture through her conversations with thomil, but also how she slowly changes and becomes less self-absorbed in pursuing her own legacy as the first female highmage as she uncovers the harsh reality of the magic’s energy source through the blight.when sciona discovers this secret and how their magic is in fact NOT a gift from their god, but a terrible and horrifying atrocity against humanity, i was instantly reliving the events of full metal alchemist (which is a trip in and of itself).i love that sciona is considered a villain in HER world, for exposing the hard truth of her culture, but for readers, she is a hero.my god, i would love to reread this for the first time, that is how much i am amazed and blown away by this book. the broken binding edition is gorgeous.
7188184733	It’s a 4.5 or a 5. I can’t decide. I need to sit with it. Magic system ✅ - got my compsci coding brain turned on. Story ✅ - riveting wow Themes ✅ - yes 100% Characters - I’m a little torn about. I wanted to love Sciona a lot more than I did. But while she was flawed, I still felt invested in her journey. Thomil was a great character. Bringham was horrible but done SO well, gave me the creeps. Renthorn obviously sucked. But the character I actually wanted more dimension from was Carra. Anyways, this was horrific and traumatizing but I do love being horrified and traumatized by books so obviously… I loved this 😂
6194936831	wrzesień 2025: Najlepsza książka tego roku. Kropka.listopad 2025: Najlepsza książka tego roku. Kropka. (za drugim razem psycha siadła i musiałam wylać nieco łez)
7012666996	“The worthwhile run is never the short one. You know we’re not running from oblivion. We’re running toward hope.”I really enjoyed this book! This was a dark academia and fantasy about the cost of power, sacrifice, hope, family, and honesty. Blood Over Bright Haven follows Sciona becomes the first woman highmage and wants to make a difference in the world but her colleagues make her feel unwelcome. Sciona and her assistant Thomil make a discovery about the truth of the magic and make a decision that will change the world. I became immersed in this intriguing magical world from the first page. The plot kept me engaged the entire book and the pacing was nearly perfect. The magic using typewriters and coding was unique, although it was a bit technical at first. I loved how the author was able to weave in the history of the magic into the story in an interesting way. The writing was descriptive and engaging. The characters were very complex and well developed. I love Sciona, she’s brave, fierce, hardworking, resilient, intelligent, and honest. I’m inspired at how determined Sciona was for people to know the truth no matter what the cost was to her reputation. Sciona’s character development was excellent, I enjoyed seeing her realize that demonstrating the truth to everyone is important and she should believe in herself. I really liked Thomil, he’s brave, caring, helpful, resilient, and strong. I loved that he should up for his beliefs and the importance of family. There are many important themes in this book including honesty, feminism, the cost of power, and how society views different cultures and truth. This book shows the duality of people during difficult times and as also hope for a better world. The ending was heartbreaking and also hopeful for the next generation. This story and the themes will stay with me for a long time. I recommend this book for anyone who loves fantasy, dark academia, magic, great characters and books with important messages.
7952666143	I N C R E D I B L E 😍
6609769951	4.5⭐️ 4 stars feels too low for this masterpiece but I didn’t get that 5 star feeling But nonetheless I thoroughly enjoyed this book.It was infuriating and made my blood boil but it made me feel and thats why I read, to feel such a range of emotions and be moved by something fictional.The misogynistic tone and comments were very heavy and on the nose. I do wish it was more subtle but hey if this is the society M.L. Wang chose to create who am I to judge.The magic system, the religion, the world was well thought out and complex yet understandable. The author gave us a flawed main character who is downtrodden in life and at work because shes a woman yet is fine going about her life not acknowledging the struggles of the Kwen people who have it worse than her.It really reminded me of real world WW feminism.Especially the scene between Sciona & Corra “You think because we’re both girls that I’m supposed to have something in common with you. But we’re not the same.”You can understand the struggles of being a woman but chose to be blind to the struggles of immigrants let alone immigrant women.It made the main character read as ignorant and insufferable yet the author still somehow made us care for her.M. L. Wang has solidified herself as an auto buy author for me
6784395107	BRILLIANT. ✨ BRUTAL.🩸 BLUNT. 📢 A dark, layered, and emotionally heavy standalone fantasy about power, complicity, and the cost of truth—following a brilliant but deeply flawed mage as she uncovers the roots of her society’s progress—and is forced to decide what she’s willing to do with the knowledge she gains.This book... sigh. It's taken me a while to come around to writing this review, and for good reason. This book has been on my mind on and off ever since I read it. I think that I'm ready to jump into my thoughts...THAT FIRST CHAPTER. 😵‍💫 Extremely engaging, devastating, confusing and pulls you IN within roughly 17 pages. From there, you get dropped straight into lecture halls, magical devices called spellographs, and enough magical math to make your eyes cross... It’s slow, deliberate, and intentional. Every line of theory is a fuse for the twist halfway through—and when it blows, you’ll understand why Wang spent so much time laying track. If intricate world‑building normally scares you, trust me: once you click in, it’s immersive and engaging. I'm starting off with saying this because I've seen many people shy away from this book for this very reason, but I truly think that this one is worth giving a try. (Even with it being a little bit heavier on world building, I found it to be very accessible for readers that may be new to this.)Speaking of accessibility—Wang’s prose is all bone and gristle—no flowery padding—and it works. so. well. The slightly clinical but curious tone matches the story of our main character, Sciona, a brilliant, painfully logical mage who treats feelings like stray variables. Sciona is painfully easy to dislike; she’s arrogant and blinkered in ways that made me grind my teeth, roll my eyes, and let out exasperated sighs... I honestly suffered through parts of the book, wondering if it was for me because I just couldn't stand this girl. The saving grace was that I disliked everyone around her more, and could relate to her struggle of being the first woman in her field. I love a stubborn, determined woman, so I gave her a shot.And then... Thomil arrives—frustrated, razor‑sharp, full of messy heart—and that's when, for me, the book tilts on its axis. Their dynamic pulled me through the back half at sprint speed. Even the side characters—like Sciona’s family, Thomil's niece, and the academic rivals—felt layered. Their roles weren’t just there to prop up the main conflict or be one-note obstacles. You can tell Wang thought about what each of them believed, what they were trying to protect, and how they fit into the larger system. There isn't one character that wasn't layered, even if in only small ways. I absolutely loved this.Now… what’s really left me sitting with this book, turning it over in my mind, are the themes. This story is heavy—especially when you start tracing the parallels to our world right now. Genocide, systemic violence, historic injustice—it’s all there, just beneath the surface. And once you see it, you feel it. It sits on your chest a little. It hurts.The themes: racism and misogyny; colonialism and cultural erasure; forced-labor caste systems; science sprinting ahead of morality; state religion wielded like a hammer; magic treated as divine right; and many more. Wang isn’t subtle—through this narrative she’s blatantly asking how much comfort we’re willing to buy with someone else’s suffering, how many atrocities we’ll overlook as long as they’re buried inside institutions we’ve come to trust. It’s impossible to ignore.I am slightly activated, but bare with me—I read some reviews after finishing that called this book “preachy” or even “shallow,” and I just don’t agree. I get that some of the book’s themes are direct, but that doesn’t make them platitudes. In fact, part of its power is in how unapologetically it confronts big issues—like institutional violence, inequality, and the cost of truth. Just because the message is clear doesn’t mean it lacks depth. It’s entirely possible to be both emotionally resonant and thematically bold without hiding behind ambiguity. The real world doesn’t give us the luxury of subtlety, and neither does this book.From my perspective, calling this story platitudinous says more about a reader’s expectations than the book’s actual quality. Not every novel needs to be cryptic or wrapped in metaphor to be meaningful. And if the themes feel familiar, maybe it’s because they’re still painfully relevant.Blood Over Bright Haven's ideological clarity, its refusal to hedge, is a choice. Think: 1984. The Handmaid’s Tale. Parable of the Sower. All direct. All indispensable. All accessible. Sometimes clarity is what makes a narrative radical and loud enough to hear. Sometimes a story needs to be loud because the world it’s reflecting is, too.I finished the last page gutted. Heartbroken, thoughtful, and quiet in that way where you just sit there for a while, staring at nothing. This book hit something deep. If you’re looking for comforting fantasy or a tidy resolution, this probably isn’t for you. But if you’re open to a story that confronts power, complicity, and cost without looking away—this one will stay with you.This story worked for me because of the themes that it explored, the way that it explored them, and how it didn't make the narrative another story about individual or personal redemption. 5 stars, from the bottom of my heart.Heads up, I've always got more to say, and there are some things below that could be considered spoilers regarding the ending of the book.*******************************************************************************************❗️❗️❗️❗️❗️❗️SPOILERSBELOW❗️❗️❗️❗️❗️❗️*******************************************************************************************Now that we’re past the spoiler wall, I want to talk about something I kept seeing in reviews that honestly frustrated me: the claim that the ending is lazy, or that it falls into a clean “eye for an eye” narrative. To me, that take completely misses the point—not just of the story, but of the world we live in. I think it comes from a place of wishful thinking, or maybe a kind of historical detachment. Because if you’ve studied how people have actually responded to regimes built on oppression, genocide, or the systemic dehumanization of entire groups, you know that “peaceful reform” isn’t always a viable path. That’s not cynical, it’s just reality. There are countless examples—large and small—of marginalized people being met with violence for even asking to be treated as human.So when people say this ending is unrealistic, or “a bad message,” I wonder what exactly they think justice is supposed to look like in a world that feeds off ritualized harm. Some people—and this book shows this clearly—are capable of doing nothing but harm. They will always put themselves first. And when those people rise to power and begin to agree, collectively, that human sacrifice is justified for the sake of order or progress or faith… I’m sorry, but asking nicely doesn't cut it.This book doesn’t present revenge as glamorous. It doesn’t even frame it as satisfying. It’s a collapse. It’s a reckoning. And it’s been repeated over and over again across history, because when nothing changes, people eventually stop asking. If that truth feels uncomfortable, it should. This isn’t a utopian story. It’s not about good triumphing through purity and patience. It’s about systems that never planned to change being torn down by people who realized no one else was going to do it for them.So… no, I don’t see this ending as lazy. I see it as honest. As human. As something deeply reflective of the way these things have played out across history. This book doesn’t lean on utopic ideas of what resolution should look like—it asks what it often does. It’s not written for people who’ve never had to think about war or oppression or revolution—unless they’re open to learning. And if that makes it didactic to some, that's fine—but not every story needs to be subtle, especially when it’s talking about the kind of violence that’s been made invisible through silence. As I said previously, sometimes stories need to be direct because subtlety is a luxury not everyone gets to afford. Sometimes we need books like this to give us the courage to use our own voices.-----------My original review:I just have one question: WHO IS PAYING FOR MY THERAPY?! 😭I need time to collect my thoughts before I write a review of this book. This is heavy. It is beautiful. It's heart-wrenching and hopeful and devastating and stunning. I soaked this tale up like a sponge even as its parallels ate away at my heart.Review to come. 🩶
7212854750	Read for this fantasy reading vlog: https://youtu.be/SjKt0n3fjJsWritten review on the way!
7188417133	This was a masterclass in pretty much everything you’d want in a dark fantasy. 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻 Character driven, dark and lush world, and emotions all over the place. 🧡
5258579339	"The worthwhile run is never the short one." Once every ten years, a woman is allowed to test into becoming a high mage. This year, its Sciona, a brilliant and driven mage who has shown that she doesn't care about anything except her ego and magic. She is chosen, only to realize that the blatant sexism that has been thrown in her face everyday of her life will not go away just because she is high up in academia. Ten years ago, running with his tribe from a blight that literally unravels people, Thomil is a Kwen who crossed into the city of Tiran with his niece, Carra. Because of the racism in the city, Thomil cannot rise above the job of janitor no matter how smart and capable he is. He keeps his head down just to survive another day. Through chance (a shitty coworker making a shitty joke), Thomil ends up as Sciona's sole laboratory assistant. Despite Sciona's prejudices towards Thomil, she teaches him how to become her assistant and, together, they discover the terrible cost that allows this city to function. This book is very academic and has a unique magic system that reminds me a lot of coding. While it is really cool, it can also be a little exhausting to read pages upon pages of Sciona infodumping this highly academic magic system to various people (mainly Thomil). The only times I ever put the book down was during those pages of explanation because it truly felt like I was reading a textbook. "Truth over delusion. Growth over comfort." Sciona is also a really hard character to read from. While yes, she does have to deal with the sexism of her society, she is still upholding an incredibly racist system and it takes her a while to understand that Thomil is just as much a person as her and even longer to realize that Thomil is not an anomaly among the Kwen in that regard. While having Sciona as the main POV in this book makes it a bit hard to read at times, it allows for Wang to open up a lot of points about the importance of intersectionality and how you can still be an oppressor if you yourself are being oppressed. Further into the book, we finally get to actually meet Carra, the young niece of Thomil. Thomil has trained himself to keep his head down and accept his fate just to survive, but he did not do the same to Carra. Where Thomil is calm and dejected, Carra is rightfully angry. She doesn't care about her own life if it means that the world will be better for her people. While she isn't a POV, she is a huge catalyst and important character for the plot and is so well written. This book is about how you are still bad if you are upholding an evil system that you are aware of and have the power to stop. If you are in a place when you can make a change, you are bad if you put your head down and ignore the atrocities and you allow for evil things to keep happening. The end of this book is bittersweet. Its really easy in a fantasy book to create an easy solution for all of the structural issues in a world, but, like in Babel by RF Kuang, Wang shows that progress cannot be made without sacrifice and violence. And even with that sacrifice and violence, it may take a hundred years to see a tangible change.This is a book that makes you angry. Not just about this fantasy world, but about the racism, colonialism, and imperialism of our own world. Song: Butchered Tongue / Hozier ________pre-review: stayed up til after 3am for this book to absolutely destroy me.
7293645994	4.5 stars Wow. Talk about putting your money where your mouth is. Very briefly: the magical system is incredible both logistically and in its imagery, the heroine is unbelievable, and the ethics are so interesting and well-reasoned. Could have lived without that last chapter, the villains could have been more nuanced, I would have enjoyed a little more romance and poignancy (though I appreciate it’s not a trite romantasy), but I can’t fault the pacing or how it kept ratcheting up my excitement. Especially as a previously published indie. Great writing, great plotting. And the ending…fantastic.Now I have to read her others. Audio Notes: Terrific on audio, read by Moira Quirk.
6377682791	── ᝰ .ᐟ 🪼: 6 stars. “I’m starting to understand how ridiculous it is to demand civility when the world is so disgustingly uncivil.” .ᐟ M.L. Wang needs to pay for my therapy because I am completely broken.My review has some spoilers. You have been warned. .ᐟ I don't even know where to begin. My brain still hasn't processed what it read, and tears are clouding my vision as I write this.Ever since I read The Sword of Kaigen, I have been eagerly awaiting Blood Over Bright Haven because I loved the first book; I consider it one of my favorites and rated it 6 stars. The writing style and emotions Wang evoked in me were enough to make me decide to read Blood Over Bright Haven (and because I promised Alison I would read it so we could discuss it together and love Sciona), and it did not disappoint. In fact, Wang exceeded my expectations. This is the kind of book I want to write, the emotions I want to evoke, the world I want to create.I'll start by saying that I began this book with a latent fear of what it would bring, as I didn't want to read any spoilers, and knowing that M.L. Wang was going to break my heart. What I didn't know was how much she would... Duh, Ale, didn't you learn your lesson with The Sword of Kaigen?Indeed, I didn't learn my lesson, lmao. 𖥻 Plot. Sciona is a sorceress struggling to make her own way in the world of magic and sorcerers, who are all men and look down on Sciona simply because she is a woman and believe that women are inferior to them. Entering the High Magisterium is a victory for Sciona, but her journey is far from over, especially considering that there are men who want her out and away from that field of study, provoking and humiliating her. Little by little, she and her new kwen assistant (whose past and knowledge are extremely helpful to Sciona) unearth a secret upon which the foundation of Tiran is built. 𖥻 Worldbuilding and magic system. I find the worldbuilding and its distribution interesting, even more so considering the role that the magical system plays and how the book revolves around it. I must confess that I had a little trouble trying to understand the magical system and how complex it sounded when I imagined it (it's a me problem tho). However, it is a unique and well-developed magical system,. I loved how the magic works, what it feeds itself from and how it keeps the city going. 𖥻 Characters. Sciona is perfect in her imperfection. My beautiful Sciona. My tragic Sciona. She is far from perfect, and that is what makes her realistic. At first, I thought she was very selfish, self-centered, and even arrogant, but then I realized that I identified with her. I identified with her ambition, her thirst for knowledge and power, her desire to prove a point, her stubbornness and foolishness, but I also saw myself in her process of enlightenment and deconstruction in such an unfair and violent world and society.I loved the way Wang portrays Sciona's blindness to the world: its injustices, inequalities, and the privileges enjoyed by a few, because it didn't affect her as much as it did others. Yes, Sciona is a constant victim of insults and humiliation from her male contemporaries simply because she is a woman, but every so often, Sciona ignores the sacrifices made by her family so that she could have a high-quality education. Not only that, but Sciona is oblivious to the inequality between Tiranish women and Kwen women until she truly opens her eyes and realizes what she has ignored for practically her entire life.Thomil, on the other hand, is the counterpart to Sciona's ignorance, since he has lived his entire life knowing what the Curse is and has been a victim of it, seeing almost his entire family die. Thomil knows the horrors that the Curse can cause, so he decides to seek a “better life” for himself and his niece, Carra. They are considered and labeled as “savages” and “inferior beings” because they are foreigners and do not have the same physical traits and ideologies as the Tiranish. He shows Sciona the horrors kwen people have suffered and still suffer inside Tiran, and that they are not savages.It is worth recognizing Bringham as an overly influential and important character throughout the book. It is not only because of the kindness he showed Sciona or the supposed faith he had in her so that she could become the first Highmage to reach the High Magisterium, but because of the secrets that are revealed later. Bringham is a murderer and an oppressor, and he knows it. He lives in a place and a society that despises its people, humiliates them, and renders them invisible, but uses them as cheap labor, exploits them, abuses them, and even murders them because they are not considered worthy or civilized. Despite his kindness and calm demeanor, Bringham knows what he has done, and carries with that guilty, believing that Sciona can be a "good legacy", that people will praise him for having faith in Sciona and see her success. But this man is broken, empty and his hands are stained with the blood of thousands.Carra may seem wild and full of rage at first. But as I continued reading, I realized that she is simply a child. A child who lost her parents because of the Tyrans and because of a curse that takes lives as easily as plucking a flower. Carra is the result of deep-rooted hatred born of years of abuse, humiliation, violence, mockery, sexism, and loss.This book opens your eyes. It makes you realize the comforts you live in and the privileges you enjoy, which we often take for granted. It shows the injustices and inequalities experienced by a people under the boot of the oppressor, who disguises himself as a savior in order to take advantage of them in silence.The supposed savior lives off the misery, suffering, and hard work of the oppressed, telling himself that he is doing the right thing, that his god does not allow heretics or offenses, that it is his duty. The supposed savior justifies his actions, violence, and murders with delusions of grandeur and supremacy, telling himself that he has a responsibility and duty given by his god to civilize those who do not follow his ideals or religion. The supposed savior does what he must do, justifying himself with the innovation, development, and well-being of his own people.The supposed savior exercises systematic and deep-rooted oppression, a doctrine intrinsically linked to religion, considering those who do not belong, and those who do not want to belong, as savages, heretics, and inferior beings. The supposed savior exerts social and academic pressure, being able to manipulate history, the past, the present, and the future to maintain the illusion of a peaceful and centered civilization, and to suppress those who threaten to disrupt the peace they have worked so hard to build through violence, humiliation, denigration, sexism, and mass murder.The oppressor hides his true face behind a benevolent mask that smiles kindly, while his eyes shine with a thirst for power and violence; his eyebrows arch with the satisfaction of knowing that he is a conqueror and can have whatever he desires; his hands move across a social board that divides his people by caste and gender, causing them to hate one another; while his boots oppress, crush, annihilate, and break those he has allowed to enter, silently reminding them that they will never be like him. And the people, the “real” people that the oppressor cares for, turn a blind eye or are simply oblivious to this reality, ignoring it and pretending everything is normal.Why should this cycle of peace and tranquility be broken by a few murders? Why should this bubble of ignorance and privilege in which “normal” people live be burst if it constitutes their security and a false illusion of peace and a utopia that is built by oppressed hands and bleeds thanks to them? Why allow someone so insignificant, curious, and innocent, and above all a woman, to come and question God, his principle, and the foundations of the righteous people that were built on genocide?This entity has existed long before this woman. We have seen its germination, development, and fruits for decades and centuries. We cannot allow someone as weak and insignificant as a woman to ruin the peace and tranquility, innovation, and technology we have created for our people, just because she discovered the truth and couldn't handle it. She is a woman, after all: her gender has been proven to be weak, emotional, and prone to succumbing to stress and emotions. It will be easy to repress and dismiss her, to pretend that she suffered an emotional breakdown because she was not strong enough to withstand academic pressure.Oh, now that the woman has shown the truth to the people and the savages have revolted, we can let the savages show God's true people their true colors. No one will believe this woman who has dared to abuse our generosity, who has foolishly believed that she can prove a point that we, the focused and respected academics, have already discovered before.Accusing the woman of witchcraft and treason is the solution. She has already caused enough chaos among our citizens by sharing a truth that affects no one but herself and a couple of savages. Killing her is the answer to everything.There is no happy ending for traitors and heretics, for those who do not know how to respect order and believe that spreading the truth will wake up the rest. It is easy to manipulate history as we please: we can wipe it off the map and turn its story into an anecdote, a horror story for children and for those dreamers who long to make a difference that goes against our principles and the will of God.However, hope prevails. As long there's hope, there's life. Even if it's not hers, but she will have done something bigger than the world imagines. Despite the awful things she did in her ignorance.-🪼 ── ᝰ .ᐟ read.as predicted, wang broke my heart and she's now one of my favorite authors. straight to my 6 stars shelfrtc because i have a lot to say.-🫧 ── ᝰ .ᐟ pre-read.i'm ready to get my heart broken again by mother, and i'm pretty sure that this will consolidate wang as one of my favorite authors
6165317950	“Here was a reason to live greater than all his grief and fear.” feminine rage that actually demonstrates the full arc of being faced with a system that is built against you, including the turmoil and crash outs that come with itthis story was tragic and all too real — from the systemic injustices to how people react when faced with the truth.i love it when stories are able to tell multi-layered and nuanced approaches to misogyny, patriarchy, classism, and xenophobia/racism — it also explored the very real fact that when a system falls and fails the people who suffer the most are the ones who have already been oppressed in the first place (i.e. the women + the Kwen/minority) “I will not turn my gaze," I am convinced M.L. Wang has unlocked the formula to slicing out a part of a fantasy world within a much bigger world while feeling like all you need is right here — the secret formula to writing Standalone Fantasy that is, in every sense of the word, complete. This is apparent in both Sword of Kaigen and Blood Over Bright Haven wherein you feel a story has begun before we started reading and there will be a story that continues on even after turning the last page. It’s very realistic in the sense that we know, in our own real life, how there’s so much to explore but we have a place right here that’s brimming with experiences and love. It made the characters and who they are relative to their setting feel that much more real+ the whole crash out about emotions (if you know, you know) had me in a chokehold. i'm pretty sure i read that one part for 3 days just because i wanted time to absorb it all. i'm not detailing here my thoughts to keep it spoiler-free “What I'm experiencing—this evil feeling—doesn't have to matter if I can just do tangible good with it. Maybe Heaven isn't so out of reach." it exemplified systemic injustice to the dot!! IN A STANDALONE FANTASY!!! This book did in one binding what takes other series 3+ books to do… sometimes not even that well.it also highlights a discussion on privilege and how we aren’t absolved from one kind of prejudice just because we experience another through complex characterizations through morally complicated characters that you also can’t help but get attached to I can scream and cry about this all day but really all i want is to relive this book and i’m glad i took my sweet time reading it. M.L. Wang is officially on my auto buy list. “It’s much easier to tell yourself you’re a good person than it is to actually be one." there are some that say this could have been longer but personally, i think it is the length it needs to be for the story that M.L. wanted to be told. I also don't really feel like everything needs to be said on the page for us to feel and know what's going on. Not everything needs to be series and I stand by the fact that we need more Standalone Fantasy. We can't want more Standalones if we're going to keep saying that they could have been longer. “So many parents will try to kill everything brilliant about a girl in the name of giving her a good life, a safe life, a chance at happiness.” She was very clear with what she wanted out of this story and it reads as such. Her execution since Sword of Kaigen has improved, in my opinion, and this deserves all the hype it gets… right fully soIt left me alternating between sobbing and staring into nothing for 10 solid minutes after finishing… it was 3am. In the end, this story boiled down to hope and truth — and what we would do in the face of it. Shakespear got nothing on ML Wang in writing tragedies. i’ve been rereading scenes and passages after finishing — it’s both devastating and beautiful that everything came full circle. i felt like a ghost floating around.— It is heartwarming and dark with a tight magic system and a story that goes on past it’s pages. Strong themes and characters that feel like I’ve met them somewhere. Complicated versions of hope and love that will keep you hooked. If you haven’t already read it, this is required reading. Go read it right now. But if you want my opinion: take your time reading it as I did. —2/2 books i read from M.L. Wang is now 5 stars and on my wall of faves5.0Content Warnings: racism, xenophobia, death, misogyny, child abuse, child labor, sexual assault, violence, suicidal thoughts, miscarriage, cannibalism, infertility•••••••••••pre read:its 3am and i have no words except i sobbed and now i need sleep——————pre-read:ML Wang has me by the THROAThow did i not know this existed 😭😭
5917095167	I went into this completely blind, seeing only its pretty cover and 4+ star ratings. After the first chapter, I had to rush to the synopsis to make sure this was a book I was even interested in.There is a drastic tone shift in the next chapters, which kept me moving onward throughout the story, but I wish I had just given up then when I had my initial feelings of doubt.I came to terms pretty quickly that this is simply not the book for me and that's okay. You can't win them all.What I liked: The magic system is one of the most unique I've ever seen. This also falls under what I disliked, but honestly, I was impressed just by the sheer creativity of the author in this aspect alone. The first chapter was gripping and translated the scope of these people's desperation flawlessly. You feel for everyone living in these conditions and want better for them.What I didn't like: I hated the blatant sexism aspect of the book. 20+ pages in, and all the main character did was commiserate on all the things women can't do. She has the attitude that men are handed everything, yet she has to work twice as hard, but it never shows her earning her magic. She's just naturally smarter and more talented than most of the men around her. This is yet another book where women are treated as dumb and insignificant, and one woman has to stand out amongst them all to make a change for everyone. It's been done so often, I was just bored. Why are we still writing books like this?Also, the main character longs to be in a place that accepts her regardless of class or gender, yet she's extremely judgemental towards the Kwen, commenting on their lack of intelligence and other things that made me feel like she was a hypocrite because she herself carries prejudices. As cool as the magic system is, the author explaining it made me feel like I was learning Java script. It is so technically dense that I felt it lost the luster of what it was supposed to be. ~ 2 stars and that is being generous.
5740003747	“It’s much easier to tell yourself you’re a good person than it is to actually be one.” Actual Rating: 4.5 Stars Wang's The Sword of Kaigen is one of my all-time favorite books, so I was eagerly anticipating her next release. When I heard about Blood Over Bright Haven, I was overjoyed. Though this book is quite different from her previous work, I’m thrilled to say that it stands out as another exceptional standalone fantasy novel. I’m also excited that it’s about to be traditionally published!Wang’s writing style is poetic, dark, and utterly captivating. From the moment I read the prologue, I knew I was in for something special, and by the time I finished the last chapter, my initial impressions were confirmed. Although I’m not typically a fan of the dark academia genre, Wang’s storytelling made it hard not to enjoy this one. The story centers on Sciona, who strives to master magic and become the first woman admitted to the High Magistry. Unsurprisingly, her journey is fraught with challenges, including a thoughtful exploration of sexism and misogyny. “So many parents will try to kill everything brilliant about a girl in the name of giving her a good life, a safe life, a chance at happiness.” The magic system in the novel is intriguing, though it takes a bit of time to fully grasp. As a fan of magical schools, I knew I’d be drawn to this aspect, and my appreciation for the magic system only deepened as I read on. The world’s mystery element, while somewhat predictable, was both clever and engaging.The book tackles serious issues and includes content warnings for gore, sexual assault, and suicidal ideation. Fans of Wang's work will recognize her penchant for brutality. The novel gave me vibes of Babel mixed with Foundryside, but with Wang's unique flair. Although I anticipated the ending, I felt it was the most fitting conclusion to the story and wished for it to unfold as it did.In summary, while Blood Over Bright Haven is quite different from The Sword of Kaigen, it is brilliant in its own right. With its exceptional writing, well-developed characters, and captivating magic system, it’s everything I could have hoped for!
7336967699	Las mujeres hambrientas de poder son mi religión más sagrada
5168068188	This is the second book I have read by M.L. Wang, and I always don't know what to think of an author after I have only read one amazing book by them. Which is where I was at with Kaigen. You never know if they caught lightning in a bottle, or if they are just that good.M.L. Wang is just that good. She has achieved auto buy, read on day one of release status after this.This was brilliant, and I liked it even more than I liked The Sword of Kaigen. I think the duel chapter in Kaigen is still definitely my favorite scene of either book, but it just had a few little things that drove it down, and this really didn't. Hard to describe without spoilers so I will just say dark academia vibe(something i'm generally neutral on), incredibly interesting protagonist who is compelling, inspiring, but deeply deeply flawed. Also worth noting that this protagonist is compelling, inspiring, and deeply flawed in totally different ways than Mizaki. M.L. Wang shows her range to those who have only read Kaigen. This is a book that manages to be compelling from start to finish, and also is a book that didn't just keep me up because I was reading, it kept me up because when I stopped reading I couldn't stop thinking about what I read. M.L. Wang is so good at writing emotional turmoil, and she is also just brutal, where other authors would make things slightly easier on their protagonist, and their reader, I don't mean this is in a graphic content way, but in making them truly see consequences. M.L. Wang puts her protagonist in position of someone who has accidentally participated in evil. There is an entire group of people in history who accidentally participated in evil, and they are the most uncomfortable people to think about, because if we don't think about it too hard we can all pretend that if we were in their shoes we would never have done that. M.L. Wang offers an unflinching look at this, forces us to confront it head on, and does not pull a single punch.9.4
5755290347	4.25 starsThe one phrase that will always enrage me: it's God's will.
5185891320	the first few chapters of this book was really good but then i took a break and came back and it was just really hard to get into, i felt like everything was being over explained which i usually don’t mind but i was struggling with a reading slump so it just made it even harder for me to want to sit down and read. this isn’t really the books fault, i just had a hard time connecting to the story because of the break i took.
5694894715	Read this instead of RF Kuang’s BabelI’m a huge fan of ML Wang. Her book The Sword of Kaigen is an absolute must-read masterpiece. I was very eager to read Blood and I was not disappointed but I will say I didn’t exactly enjoy this book… but that’s kind of the point. I’ll explain. First, the characters are phenomenal. Sciona, the first woman protege mage to make it to the big leagues is complex, well fleshed out and with very clear motivations. She’s also beautifully paradoxical in both her ambitions and contrived compassion. She’s very compelling to read alongside the janitor Thomil, who eeks out his living as part of the exploited and racial underclass. Thomil and his niece along with the history of his oppressed people is the jewel of this book and is really what this entire book is actually about. The world of Tiran and the blight that has destroyed the people of Kwen, creating an exploited labor market of refugees is a compelling backdrop as the plot moves forward. I think the ending is very well done, but predictable.Second, the subject matter and themes of Blood are timely and compelling: colonialism, imperialism, bigotry, class war, sexism, patriarchy, misogyny, dogmatism, immigrations, ultra nationalism, fascism—it’s all here and it’s woven expertly into an accessible fantastical narrative. The treatment of these themes was spot on. This book serves as direct social and political commentary to the real world. Because of the content and themes, this fantasy novel is not fantasy escapism it’s fantasy realism. That’s what made this book not necessarily a pleasurable experience. Which is fine, writers don’t need to write to pacify their audience into escapism. I loved all that.My only real problem with the plot is that it felt contrived. The story didn’t feel organic or spontaneous to me. My evidence for this is the binary moral system of Sciona. What I mean is, Sciona is a cold, talented power hungry mage throughout basically all of this book. But when she discovers the truth about her society, she seems to have compassion (although ego-driven) on the underclass which is constantly at odds with her alleged nature of craving power. A dynamic is set up where she is grappling with who she is and also who she wants to be in the eyes of Thomlin. The narrative would’ve felt more organic if Sciona was allowed to revel in the complexity of personhood rather than her grappling with an artificial binary system. Because of this binary, Sciona was destined to do what she did rather than a resolution that could have been less predictable which is why the plot and the resolution felt contrived. This isn’t to say Sciona wasn’t complex, well written and well characterized because she most definitely was.My other issue with this story is that it is pretty blunt and heavy handed. Again, I really appreciate the commentary but the villains were just so banal and obvious. Again, this is realism because real evil is just as banal and obvious. This book is VERY similar to RF Kuang’s Babel in many ways. I thought Babel was only okay because it came off extremely heavy handed, pedantic and contrived. Bright suffers from some of the same problems but it is a MUCH better book with better characters and not so pedantic. At any rate, I definitely found this book an excellent read and extremely well written by a very talented author.
5726359175	"a woman was weighed at the gates of heaven by her actions and their impact. well, sciona was going to leave an impact." 4.5/5when it comes to writing standalone fantasy, m.l. wang is truly a genius.this book was such an incredible ride, i'm still reeling from the adrenaline. it did take me a while to get into - the first 30% is a bit slow but once the plot gets going, it's full-speed ahead with barely a breather and i was on the edge of my seat right till the end (it also has my favorite thing where the ending echoes what happened at the beginning). this is dark academia as it should be - questioning the foundations of academia, the ethics of research, the elitism and greed of academics. i also loved how wang explored the themes of colonialism, industrialization, capitalism, and misogyny through a fascinating magic system in a gaslamp fantasy setting. i really enjoyed the way the magic system was treated as a science, with theories and formulas and calculations and i loved learning about it along with the world and its history. the way the narrative uncovers the mysteries behind the world and its magic was beautifully done. i also appreciate this book's insight into religion and morality and what it truly means to be a good person - or rather, if it's possible for goodness to survive in a harsh and cruel world. of course no dark academia is complete without a passionate obsessive academic at its core and sciona freynan is that brilliantly unhinged protagonist. she's far from a likable character but you can't help rooting for her - she's an underdog in her world and also an unreliable narrator, egotistical, has racist views, and is ignorant to the painful realities of many in her city. but the way she grows, the path she takes, her sheer determination and strength of will to break the boundaries of society - i grew to really admire her. as for our other hero, i absolutely loved thomil, i loved seeing his complex, fraught relationship with sciona, and i couldn't have gone on this journey with better characters.if i'm being really picky, i'd say the side characters could have been more fleshed out but that's a minor complaint in the context of a book as accomplished as blood over bright haven. easily a new favorite of the year. highly recommended.
7720194987	"𝘚𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘨𝘰𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘰 𝘴𝘩𝘰𝘸 𝘛𝘪𝘳𝘢𝘯 𝘴𝘰𝘮𝘦𝘵𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘺 𝘩𝘢𝘥 𝘯𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘳 𝘴𝘦𝘦𝘯 𝘣𝘦𝘧𝘰𝘳𝘦. 𝘚𝘩𝘦 𝘸𝘢𝘴 𝘨𝘰𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘵𝘰 𝘴𝘩𝘰𝘸 𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘮 𝘏𝘦𝘭𝘭𝘧𝘪𝘳𝘦."This book is truly a masterpiece 😭💫 I loved every bit of it and enjoyed it so much. From the very first chapter, I knew I was about to read one of my favorite books of the year. It was emotional and heartbreaking — I actually cried from the first chapter. 💔The second chapter made me so proud of on Sciona. I absolutely loved her character — strong, intelligent, ambitious. I even loved her selfishness, her focus on her own goals and desires. What she did lateras completely unexpected, especially because caring for others wasn’t really in her nature. But I believe Thomil brought out that side of her, since he was the only man who truly listened to her and saw her for her mind, not her gender.Thomil’s story broke my heart 😢 — he had to stay silent and bow down to those who hurt him, all to protect his niece, the one person he loved enough to die for. His pain never truly ended… he loved, and he lost, over and over again. Yet, he always kept hope alive.I loved his relationship with Sciona — built entirely on honesty and mutual respect. Even though the book isn’t centered on romance but rather for a much deeper theme — that the strong always devour the weak, and power, at some point, is always corrupt; anyone who seeks it must be willing to abandon their principles — you can still feel the chemistry and tension between them. It’s a kind of slow burn that feels so natural and real. 🔥I also loved how the magic system was explained in detail — it was such a central and fascinating part of the story, perfectly woven into the world-building and plot. ✨The plot twists were insane 😳 — completely unpredictable and powerful, changing everything Sciona once believed in. And that ending… I have no words. The fact that it began and ended with Thomil and carra felt so complete, so full-circle. And the place that was once their escape became their safe haven. 🥺Overall: This book left me speechless. It’s emotional, thought-provoking, and beautifully written. I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves stories that challenge your heart and mind. ❤️⋆𐙚₊˚⊹♡ |𝑃𝑟𝑒-𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑.Saw a TikTok saying to put down whatever book you're reading… guess I’m curious enough to follow 😏❤️
6611300111	WHAT THE FUCK
6301845129	9.00 on CAWPILEAbsolutely rage inducing. I loved it.
7303142102	5+⭐️ I am wrecked, destroyed, and I don’t know if I’ll ever recover. I DO know that this was one of the best books I’ve ever read in my life. From the second I started this book, I knew it was going to be a good one but wow… that ending, I think it actually just altered a very vital piece of my soul. I sobbed the last hour of reading this book and I still want to cry now that it’s over. What a refreshing book. Not only is it a stand alone fantasy, but it has the most unique magic system I’ve ever read. This story was so real and raw. It comes face to face with deep rooted misogyn and xenophobia. It’s a story about a woman fighting back, not through rage but through her intellect, outsmarting the men who have done everything to keep her suppressed. It is about an unlikely partnership between a woman and a man from an oppressed group, teaming up despite their differences to create change. This book will make you feel feminine rage more than you have ever felt, but it will also inspire you. The ending is so incredibly poetic. I’ll personally be thinking about this book for the rest of my life.
6837031778	To give credit where credit is due, M.L. Wang is one of the few authors who is writing standalone fantasies with a well thought out magic system, and this book did not have the pacing issues I struggled with in The Sword of Kaigen. While the themes the book attempts to address are important, the execution was overblown and the romantic subplot really didn't work within the context of the story. Even though I consider myself to be a reader that is easily moved emotionally, there's something about this author's writing that leaves me feeling disconnected. The only moment I felt any genuine interest was at the conclusion of Sciona's storyline. The book should have ended there.
5703877677	Wow, another spectacular stand-alone fantasy from the remarkable M.L. Wang. She's indisputably one of the best of the genre in writing emotionally powerful stories in a single tome.
5903804215	brb gonna stare at a wall for a while
6747147753	Let me start by saying: this is miles and away better than Babel.That being said, I have very mixed feelings about this book. There's a lot to like and admire about it, and overall, the execution is much more competent than that found in similar projects. However, the book suffers from two major flaws: pacing and poor characterization.I've heard a lot of complaints about a lack of subtlety and I tend to agree, however, I'd say this is largely a problem that arises from the aforementioned poor characterization. My humble suggestions (without spoilers) for how this could have been improved:First, this should have been a duology. There is a rather enormous revelation in the first third-ish of the book that feels like it should have been built up to over the course of a whole novel and should have been the grand finale. The second and final installment would then tackle the effects, ramifications, and reactions. This would allow for both the plot to flow, and for characters to respond, much more naturally. Second, the characters should have been more three-dimensional, and less "what the plot needs them to be right now." Again, without spoilers, the main character we are given to believe is extremely intelligent, and while intelligent people certainly do foolish things, the actions of this MC, as well as the REactions of this MC, at times beggar belief and therefore hurt the plot, and overall message of the book. With more breathing room (see above re duology), I think an almost identical climactic ending to this story could have been achieved, but would have made more sense for both plot and characters. The changes I have in mind would require some minor additional subplots and slight tweaks in motivations, but I think the result would have been so much more satisfying and "realistic." Overall, a solid effort that is certainly worth reading. But it could have been truly great, and it hurts to see something come so close to greatness and then miss the mark.
5874957219	This was incredible! Such a smart approach to Dark Academia that is anti-colonial and explores the complexities of how women of the majority group can be both oppressed and complicit in the oppression of others. And the way that religion is too often used to justify atrocities. Not what I was expecting, but absolutely gripping and I couldn't put it down.Sciona is brilliant and single-minded in her quest to become the first female High Mage in Tiran. Despite rampant misogyny, she manages to achieve her goal and begin work on her first major magical mapping assignment. When male colleagues assign her a janitor as a lab assistant, she makes the best of it, even if he's part of an oppressed underclass of refugees. But Thomil is more than she bargained for, and as she delves deeper into the secrets of the magic that fuels the technology of the city, she uncovers truths she's unprepared to deal with. I won't say more than that, but this was devastating and also perfect. Loved it.
5126465199	2.5 StarsI typically enjoy dark fantasy academia but this one fell flat for me. I found myself disappointed in the character work and the writing.
7356486880	I started this book as a sweet treat to fall asleep to and ended up not sleeping at all! Haha! I devoured this bad boy up in one night. Genuinely, you would’ve had to rip this book from my hands to get me to stop reading.And when it DID end, I was not ready. The devastation and excitement I felt swimming in my bones when I turned the last page was as poignant as I felt when I read the prologue. I love my copper haired babies and I hope they burned it all to the ground <3
7506307898	I know this is going to be a disappointment to a lot of people which is why I was worried about reading this book in the first place. But the thing is, if this is one of the first books of this sort with this kind of messaging and storyline that you've read, it's just going to hit you a lot harder and be a lot more meaningful than for people who have read these themes before. And I'm old. 🤣What I'm looking for in books like this now is subtlety and originality and I just did not find that here. I will say I liked the magic system a lot and that's why I rated it a three. But that was really the only thing I got out of this book. Which makes me very sad. Overall this is how I feel about books like this. It's like how people go to church and listen to the pastor and nod along with what he's telling them, because they already agree with what he's saying. But they think it applies to the person sitting next to them and not them, and they're sitting there thinking "I really hope [insert name] is paying attention right now. All while seeing themselves as the enlightened one. And that if somebody actually did think that this book was about them, they would dismiss it outright because it lacks any kind of nuance. It's just hitting you over the head with every kind of social injustice you've already been discussing using the exact terminology you've already seen a million times. (It would make a good YA book from 2015 though). Needless to say this was probably one of the biggest disappointments I've had in a long time. Don't worry, you'll probably love it 🤣🤣
6514775133	4.5!
5266409963	4.25/5 We're not running from oblivion. We're running toward hope. M.L. Wang is a genius. This book is incredible. It's astoundingly clever, every part of it is so well thought out. It strikes you at every precise beat with raw, emotional twists and devastating revelations. Everything artfully comes to fruition and meets together again in unexpected ways. It's masterfully created, I don't think it could have been done better.The writing is beautiful all throughout, from the very first page to the very last. I was continuously noting down gorgeous passages and couldn't stop, they seemed never-ending. The characters are complicated and ever so interestingly constructed. They're passionate and flawed and conflicted. They make for an incredibly engaging story, one that is quite impossible to put down. It's the type of story that makes you feel the need to consume it obsessively, unable and unwilling to ever stop reading. It's thrilling and addictive. I loved slowly unravelling every inch of this world and its dark, insidious other face.Both the worldbuilding and the magic system were fascinating. I loved learning more and more about them as time went on, I loved discovering this world's secrets. The world is created with such intelligent insight from the ground up; all its history is riveting, it teems with life. Within this bustling city, we are predominantly stationed within the High Magistry's walls, where the elite mages work. Here we dive into a story that is, at the very least, dark academia adjacent and we delve into a lot of the themes that are often explored in such novels. These themes of colonialism, racism, misogyny, and more are all deeply ingrained into Tiran's society and are used and explored in such skilful ways all throughout the story. The brightest meadows grew from dead things. I was hooked from the very first chapter and found this book to only get better and better. If you liked a lot of the themes explored in Babel by R.F. Kuang but wished the fantasy elements were more pronounced (or wished those themes were explored in depth within a high fantasy novel), then you will definitely enjoy and take a lot away from this book.I can't wait to see what else Wang does in the future!Thank you to the author for providing me with an arc in exchange for an honest review. Sciona was no witch. She was a mage of Tiran to her core.
4748960820	I just read Blood Over Bright Haven by M. L. Wang and here is what I thought about it:If you read Babel by R. F. Kuang last summer and have been chasing that high ever sense, you should pick up this book. While I wouldn’t necessarily categorize this book as dark academia in the same way that The Secret History by Donna Tartt is dark academia, this is an academia driven story about the intensive research processes in a STEM-like magical system that helps the immersive fantastical urban center of Tiran run and keeps out a blight that rips people to shreds. The cast of characters is rather small as we mostly follow the first female mage work with her assistant to prove herself to a deeply misogynistic, racist, and xenophobic “beacon” city. The critiques of academia and colonialism are clear and poignant—I was never bored and always felt intrigued by the unfolding of a well told story. The strengths of this book include its snappy pace, strong (yet limited) character work, and an extremely layered and well thought out magic system that is deeply ingrained into the plot of the book and the histories of the characters. If you like the system and integration of the magic system in Full Metal Alchemist you will deeply enjoy this one. Every page of the book felt necessary and moved the plot forward. Nothing was waisted and I couldn’t take my eyes off the book from page one. In addition to my gushing about this book, I can’t help but think about this novel compared to The Sword of Kaigen which I also deeply enjoyed. I have concluded that I think I enjoyed this more (only because this sub-genre of fantasy is preferable to me) but aside from just my feelings, they are very incomparable, and I love to find authors that can write well in multiple genres. M. L. Wang is truly skillful, and I appreciate her ability to successfully use the positive sides of indie publishing to create a truly unique book.Wang has solidified herself as one of my favorites and I can’t wait to read more from her. 5/5
