2736236166	oooh, goodreads choice awards semifinalist for BEST HORROR 2019! what will happen?this book is straight-up bonkers. seeing this was set “at an elite new england university” with an exclusive clique at its center and seeing it compared to Heathers, i went into it expecting a Megan Abbott-y/The Secret History-y type of deal; full of those dark and toxic currents that define adolescent girlhood, where affection shifts into power struggle at the drop of a hat, but also featuring a bunch of soulless smarty-pants big on ritualistic gatherings and down for some light murder. yes and pleasethis… is not that. which is not to say it’s bad AT ALL, it’s just not what i thought i was getting into. it is ALSO not, although this is frequently true of other books, that it is being misrepresented by overzealous marketing. you see, it is also compared to The Vegetarian, which i have not read, but now that i’ve looked into that book more, if i HAD read it, i probably would have been less taken aback by what this book actually is. which is, as previously stated, bonkers. this is The Secret History through the looking glass, carroll’s white rabbit split into four excessively co-dependent MFA students; twitchy and touchy-feely and calling each other “bunny,” operating symbiotically(?) as a “we;” each maintaining a specifically regimented style of expression in appearance and craft, but otherwise inseparable.samantha, our narrator and entry into this world, is the fifth person in the workshop, on the awkward periphery of these cooing girls who always seem to be monkey-grooming one another and giggling and sparkling all over the place. unlike the bunnies, who are rich and well-assimilated in the jargony twaddle of MFA programs the world over (”I appreciate the uncertainty the piece gestures toward…I just think she could go further into the dream space. It’s so interesting how she performs and reenacts trauma.”), samantha is planted firmly in outsider territory; a scholarship student whose darker themes are called ‘angry,’ ‘mean,’ and ‘distant’ by the bunnies, from whom she seems content to maintain her distance; aloof and sarcastically eviscerating them from afar alongside her art school dropout bestie ava; she of the fishnet gloves and veil, the asymmetrical haircut and tattered underwear-as-outerwear look. and then, unexpectedly, samantha is formally, by way of origami swan, invited into the bunnies’ inner circle, where she learns an awful lot about creativity, process, vulnerability, and true power.so yeah, it’s VERY reminiscent of Heathers, with its interplay of the frivolous and the dark and the comedic, as well as individual and group dynamics, but it’s just as much molly ringwald and annie potts in Pretty in Pink; outsider snark as a weapon against the allure of the wealthy pretty people, and the spiritual cost of capitulation (which john hughes never addressed, but i always inferred), and a vision board collage of style and theme that’s like Desperately Seeking Susan and Pump Up the Volume and Heathers and 92% of john hughes’ oeuvre. and also, oddly, the spice girls, since the bunnies adopt a particular quirky fashion-based persona that sets them apart within their collective persona.it’s not bonkers right out of the gate. at first, it seems like it's gonna be a fun-poking campus novel. this book is so funny in its depiction of the MFA world; the fetishizations and the relentless cleverness and posturing and critiques, which i can only imagine is much worse now as millennials tiptoe thru the triggers trying to make art that offends no one and supplying feedback that is nothing but praise, even for the kind of self-consciously manufactured glop people like the bunnies produce. like the one samantha calls “the Duchess,” who writes “inaccessible and cryptic” pieces, she calls proems, “etched on panes of glass using a dagger-shaped diamond she wears around her neck.” or the work of the one samantha has dubbed “Vignette,” who shares “a series of unpunctuated vignettes about a woman named Z who pukes up soup while thinking nihilistic thoughts, then has anal sex in a trailer,” for whom samantha has little patience.I hate Vignette’s pieces. They are dreary word puzzles I’m always too bored and annoyed to solve. Each paragraph is a half smile, half frown, way up its own asshole. Also, they beg questions like: when on her perilous, pirouetting journey from Interlochen to Barnard was she ever in a trailer?but, of course, in a workshop of four hydra-like girls and a fawning mentor, an outsider does not have the luxury of honestly speaking her mind.”What do you think, Samantha?” Fosco asks me.That it’s a piece of pretentious shit. That is says nothing, gives nothing. That I don’t understand it, that probably no one does and no one ever will. That not being understood is a privilege I can’t afford. That I can’t believe this woman got paid to come here. That I think she should apologize to trees. Spend a whole day on her knees in the forest, looking up at the trembling aspens and oaks and whatever other trees paper is made of with tears in her languid eyes and say, I’m fucking sorry. I’m sorry that I think I’m so goddamned interesting when it is clear that I am not interesting. Here’s what I am: I’m a boring tree murderess.But I look at Vignette, at Creepy Doll, at Cupcake, the Duchess. All of them staring at me now with shy smiles.“I think I’d like to see more of the soup too,” I hear myself say.samantha herself is not immune to that stereotypically, overly fussy brand of MFA writing, even though we don’t get to see much of the work she produces for the workshop. however, as the narrator, everything is filtered through her descriptions, and the prose is precise, overly crafted; the reader is bludgeoned with adjectives, with a particular emphasis on smells pinned into place with poetic words, where the bunnies’ outfits are described in every scene, creating a sensory overload that is frequently original and poetic, but is sometimes just… too much. don’t get me wrong, i loved most of the writing, She shivers at the view of the grand trees, as if they’re not trees at all but something truly vile, like all the rosy-blond light that seems to forever bathe the campus is about to punch her in the face like a terrible fist of rich.there’s just a lot of chewy prose here and sometimes it’s a description-bog.and then… bonkers ensues.it’s really fun and sharp and shivery, with a macabre fairy-tale overlay that gives it a unique spin on the coming-of-age tale. "coming-of-age" might seem misplaced, considering these are MFA students, but they read much younger than their actual age; not just the self-consciously girly-girl bunnies, but also in the themes samantha brings to the narrative; her awkwardness and loneliness and leftover-adolescent self-consciousness about fitting in; finding her place — for all of her ostensible disgust at the bunnies, their camaraderie is not without appeal for someone defined by loneliness and survival-mode embracing of their own otherness. it may not have been the book i thought i was going to read, but it was a very pleasant surprise, and even though i am being intentionally vague about where this one’ll take you, i encourage you to find out for yourself, because bonkers is way better than boring.************************************that was... unexpected. i need to process this one a little bit. review TK.come to my blog!!
2882038042	*deep, deep breath**lung-bursting shrieks**choked swear words**another deep breath in, then out*Alright, with that out of the way, let's get this shit over with.MASSIVE FUCKING SPOILER WARNING!!!!!!Words cannot, and I mean CANNOT, express how disappointed I am with this novel. I went from, "wow, this is so creepy, I love it!" to "well, that was a little disappointing," to "FUCK THIS SHIT SO FUCKING HARD." The best word I can use to sum up my emotions right now (aside from the obvious ones like rage, hatred, and disappointed) is BETRAYED. I feel so FUCKING betrayed by this novel because there were so many things that I liked and it legitimately feels like the story saw my joy and said, "oh, you're happy? That won't do, let's fix that, shall we?" and turned this book into a fucking dumpster fire by the end of it.Before I start rage-hating this book, I want to express the one aspect that I loved for most of it: the writing. Holy shit, the writing was amazing! The details given to locations, the senses, appearances, even emotions was done so well and added depth to scenes that ordinarily wouldn't get. However, the amount of detail started to weigh down the story considerably towards the end, to the point where you could skim whole paragraphs and not miss anything crucial.One thing that I loved about the writing was the detail given to each of the Bunnies, specifically from Samantha's perspective. For example, one of the Bunnies she referred to as Cupcake, because she always wore bright colored dresses (like brightly colored frosting) and smelled like sweet fruit (a common ingredient in cupcakes). What was interesting about this is that this can be interpreted as objectification. Samantha doesn't see Cupcake as a person (for most of the book) but rather as a consumable product, and since they are both writing majors and they are told to focus on The Body, her nickname and description unintentionally characterizes Cupcake as a consumable object rather than a person. I could on about the other women in the story, but for the sake of this review's length I'll keep it at that. Suffice to say, that was an aspect I truly enjoyed. Too bad it couldn't carry the rest of the fucking story.But let's not get ahead of ourselves, let's talk about the main character Samantha, or as I like to call her, Our Lady of Perpetual Pity Parties. Look, I get it, her entire character arc is supposed to be about her whining about how much her life sucks and constantly needing other people for support only for her to realize that in the real world, sometimes you have to do difficult things on your own, and give her a triumphant concluding chapter. Yeah, here's how I feel about that:FUCK. THAT. SHIT.All Samantha did for LITERALLY 3/4 OF THE BOOK was whine, whine, whine about her life and how she hates people but can't tell them, and LIES, LIES LIES. Holy shit, did she tell the fucking truth AT ALL in this story? I couldn't tell because the author was SO ADAMANT about making her lie about FUCKING EVERYTHING that I honestly couldn't tell. I was so done with her self-created and self-attended pity parties that by the time she actually did something it didn't feel satisfying.Quick side note, I hated pretty much everyone in this fucking book. They were all self-entitled, judgmental, and uninteresting. Moving on.Now it's time to talk about the moment where this turned from awesome to disappointing. You know how the summary promotes the idea that these are women bringing to life their "dark fantasies"? Yeah, sounds interesting, doesn't it? You wanna know what their "dark fantasies" are?Men. Their ideal, fantasy-created men. I'm not kidding. They literally sacrifice bunnies so that they can create their own men. Oh, but they're not called men, instead they're "Drafts," "Darlings," or "Hybrids". Yeah, WHAT FUCKING EVER. I was expecting twisted, disturbing creatures birthed from twisted minds, not their fantasy guys. Seriously, fuck this plot twist so hard, it was such a disappointment.And to add the cherry on top of this disappointing story, we have the totally off the rails depiction of women hating. That's effectively what this story boils down to, women hating that is suspiciously juvenile but it takes place in a college so it's TOTALLY ADULT. Here's the plot: unpopular girl gets drafted into popular group, leaves the group for awhile, that group gets bitchy revenge, girl returns to group, then leaves group again, girl gets final revenge at the end. HOW IS THIS NOT A YA STORY?! Seriously, I have seen this EXACT FORMULA at least half a dozen times already, but because it takes place in a college its ADULT?! FUCK THAT SHIT! Oh, and let's talk about the women hating, shall we?First off, Samantha is unfathomably judgmental to the Bunnies, until she is officially inducted into their ranks. The Bunnies are always cooing and coddling each other, all the while saying nasty and judgmental things sugarcoated as suggestions or whatever. So, you know, there's that. I thought this story was going to be about rising above all that and be a feminist piece but NOPE! You want to know what unravels their little friend group?A FUCKING MAN. I shit you not, Samantha is able to "create" a man that all of the Bunnies love (all other men were failures. Oh and Samantha was able to do this ON HER FIRST TRY, because OF FUCKING COURSE, why the fuck not?!) and they tear each other AND THEMSELVES apart to please him, going so far as to LITERALLY FIGHT EACH OTHER for his affection. And you want to know the best part? Based off of my interpretation of the text, Max (Samantha's "creation") exists to do all the things she wants to do but can't because she's too scared (like date Ava, her friend, or destroy the Bunnies). Are you telling me that Samantha had to create A MALE VERSION OF HERSELF to be able to do all the things she wanted to do before her plot induced epiphany kicked in?! Oh, and speaking of endings, you want to know what her "new and improved" self does when approaching the Bunnies after Max is destroyed? She acts snarky and condescending towards them. Female empowerment at its finest, AM I RIGHT, GUYS?! Holy shit, how is it possible for a story to derail so spectacularly?! (Although the same thing happened with The Black Coats, so I guess anything's possible).Welp, that about does it. All of my rage and hatred has finally been quelled, thanks to my best friend, the caps lock key. In closing, I do not recommend this book to anyone, I wish I could have lit my copy on fire and throw it out a window but it was a library book so I couldn't, I hope everyone has a nice day and never has to suffer like I did reading this book.
3855454724	I would join a cult with no questions asked.https://emmareadstoomuch.substack.com...I can't even pretend that I'm better than that, or smarter than that, or capable-er of reading red flags than that. The fact of the matter is that not only do I hate making decisions (and therefore find the idea of someone making all of mine for me very compelling), I also (due to years of being a teacher's pet nerd) am desperate to be cool.Make that cult led by a bunch of hot girls in cute dresses and I am done for.This is a very cool, very...funny in the way of Satire, very creepyspooky book that I enjoyed quite a bit. I picked it up as part of my need to read every work of literary fiction with a low average rating and a female protagonist who is hard to like, so I didn't really expect to appreciate the reading experience. But I did.This book is also fairly big on BookTok, and while most of my TikTok feed is made up of the most unhinged and inexplicable videos to exist in the universe since the end of Vine, I occasionally brush with literature (presumably due to my username being "emmareadstoomuch"). People on BookTok like to say very dumb things about this book, like "i liked most of it but it rlly lost its way at the end :/" and "bunny was like good but also it totally stopped making sense" as if endings are something authors just make up at the last minute and they have nothing to do with anything.That is so stupid it triggers my fight or flight, and the ending of this is good.The end.Bottom line: Books like this forever!!!-------------pre-reviewi don't know what it says about me that after reading this book, i just really want to be a blonde rich demon girl in a pastel dress eating mini foods...okay, i do know. it's that i'm psychologically unwell.review to come / 3.5ish-------------currently-reading updatesit's giving a secret history (this is an observation i made based on title alone, only to discover that the woman who wrote cat person made the same one presumably after reading the whole book)-------------tbr reviewhad to add this to my tbr, as a big fan of borderline unpleasant literary fiction about unlikable women
2975333753	people get exhausted trying to figure me out, and i just let them - this book @ me, midway throughthis is just bizarre and not in a way that has me wanting to figure out what happens next. i wanted to slam my head into a wall trying to puzzle my way through writing that used phrases like "gynecological hand gestures." like what the fuck does that even mean. i guess i now understand people's inability to put this book into words in their reviews. because the book has nothing tangible to explain.dnf @ like... 40%?
4852088923	Wtf was that.
5184842115	“Tik tok sensation” should’ve given it away but honestly what a fucking dreadful book
2871415388	hahahahha what the fuck
3247260221	2nd read: October 2021buddy read with caitlin & my patrons★★★★★!!!!!!!!!!!!1st read: October 2020buddy read with caitlin★★★★★
3194812716	“A book should be like an ax.”
3499457686	this was the weirdest book i've read in my life and i don't know if i loved it or hated it but it was amazing and broke my brain
4092594621	reading this book feels like getting a lobotomy, in the best way possible
3074444467	FINALLY I AM FREEEEE
4512179602	the secret history for chronically online tumblr obsessed girlbosses who belong in the psych ward
5214548926	I appreciate the experimental approach to the writing, especially as the main character gets more initiated into the cult and the story started feeling like a fever dream. I also liked the satire with writing groups and the way they critique and the MFA environment. However, the characters and story felt too juvenile for my tastes, and it was hard to believe that they were adults instead of teenagers (you could argue it’s because they’re supposed to be out of touch and immature, but ehh). I think this would be cool to watch as a movie but it wasn’t really my thing as a book.
3644589370	I want to be the person likes weird books but I don't think I'm the person who likes weird books. Booktube | Instagram | Twitter
2769141791	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | |There are those bizarre and experimental books that manage to be entertaining, transgressive, and on occasion even thought-provoking. And then, there are books like Bunny whose weirdness largely rests on overusing the word bunny (which appears approximately 350 times, one time too many). An intentionally silly story that owes more to Scream Queens and The Babysitter then Heathers or Mean Girls. If you are picking up Bunny thinking that it is some sort of intriguing campus novel, you should reconsider given that this book is the anthesis to The Secret History. If you are hoping for some sort of absurdist black comedy à la Yorgos Lanthimos, think again. The 'satirical horror' I was hoping to encounter in Bunny was largely MIA.Each page of this novel tries to be 'sarcastic' by exaggerating the mannerisms and words of certain groups of people (in this case a creative writing clique) which made for a weary reading experience. Writing about writing is never an easy endeavour since there is the high risk that you will remind your readers that they are indeed 'reading' a fictitious work. Since the main cast in Bunny is part of a creative writing MFA program...we were constantly reminded of how inane criticism can be. The five girls part of this program are apparently only able to write fiction that reflects their personal life or preferences...funnily enough, a lot of the criticism that these characters throw at each other's pieces of writing could easily be aimed at Bunny (oh, the irony):“Um, what the fuck is this, please? This makes no sense. This is coy and this is willfully obscure and no one but [the author] will ever get this […] spoiled, fragmented, lazy, pretentious […] And then I feel like screaming JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL ME WHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS AND WHAT YOU DID WITH HIM EXACTLY.”Four of these girls are part of a clique that is the ultimate parody of cliques. From the first few pages they are presented as some sort of 'hive-mind', some sort of multi-conscious entity. Some of their conversations between them—as well as the narrator's observations about them—could be amusing. Although the narrator keeps insisting that she is 'different' (aka the only 'big' difference between her and the bunnies is her finances) she falls prey to this clique. Personally, I don't think the story provides with a convincing reason for the MC to fall in with these girls. Even when the Mc sees their most secretive activities...it seemed that she stayed with them out of laziness (or merely as a way to further the plot).The weirdness of this story seems contrived. This whole novel seems (rather ironically) like an exercise for a creative writing class. Many of the 'bizarre' elements in this story were predictable and had me rolling my eyes. The whole book is like a joke that goes on for too long. The first few chapters were amusing and the scenes that took place in the creative writing workshop were on point (and reminded me of the creative writing module I took in my first year of uni): “Samantha, we’re at Warren. The most experimental, groundbreaking writing school in the country. This goes way beyond genre. It subverts the whole concept of genre.”“And gender narratives.”“And the patriarchy of language.”“Not to mention the whole writing medium.”“It basically fucks the writing medium, Samantha. Which is dead anyway, you know?”“Exactly. This is about the Body. Performing the Body. The Body performing in all its nuanced viscerality.”Yet, soon enough the repetitiveness of these exchanges grew tiresome and the style of the narrative became increasingly annoying and unnecessary. The narrative mimics the language—and perhaps vision—of this clique of girls: it is sweet, sticky, and extra. If you like eating candy floss until you feel sick you might be up for it...the narrative—if not the whole story—is a parody that lacks subtlety or real wit:Here at Mini they have many cupcakes in mini but they should have more. Why don’t they have more? They should have more in mini, more! We tell them how they should have more in mini and they do not seem to make a note of it.The narrative's style was so repetitive! All too frequently words were repeated three times in a row in a cheap attempt to give urgency to the story. The plot (if we can call it that) even in its 'wtf moments' is tedious. The characters and story seem merely a backdrop to this sickeningly sweet and repetitive language (hair like feathers, tiny pink-y small-ish hand, glossy this and that, teensy-weensy girls who eat teensy-weensy food).This book didn't inspire feelings of panic or fear, which I was expecting given its summary...I was never afraid of these demented girls and their stupid activities. A lot of the things seem to just happen to the MC as if she isn't capable of these laughable 'terrible' things from happening (insert eye roll here). Again, I find it ironic that the MC's own writing is criticised for this exact reason:“Although we could hardly call her a heroine, could we? I mean, could we even call her that, Samantha? […] She’s quite passive, Samantha, isn’t she?”I guess you could argue that this is all 'intentional'. The stupid characters, the saccharine and repetitive language, the MC's spinelessness...these things come across this way on purpose...but that seems like a cheap excuse to make the lazy and unfunny elements of your story 'deliberate'. The worst 'sin' of all is that this book leaves us with a less than favourable opinion about writing and criticism...which isn't a great message.
3326061248	One of the weirdest fucking books I’ve ever read. This book is the product child of a love triangle: if Mean Girls and Alice in Wonderland fell in love with The Craft.If you like pretentious people in cliques and sacrificial cults and exploding heads and truly WTF moments, all at the same time getting their MFAs in writing and lit? Then this one is for you.4 STARS
2855347137	God this was truly awful. You know when you get a feel for a book and the feel is, ‘I don’t like this but I’m going to give it a chance?’ But then you give it a chance and it doesn’t improve? So that happened.As I read I thought this author must be very young and will be embarrassed by this in ten years. It’s like a much worse Fear and Loathing in Los Vegas but completely uninteresting.I would not recommend this to anyone.
4169814341	I loved this book from its first sentence. I fell hopelessly in love with this book by the second page. After that I kept reading along in a fog of joy. What did it mean? What did I care? Sometimes I made small ejaculatory noises as I read along. Mostly these noises resembled swift soft barks of pleasure that weren't quite laughs, but were laugh-adjacent. And I guess you could say that I've finally figured out that what I value most in contemporary fiction is an original voice, along with (the illusion, at least, of) an author who is so filled with brash unassailable confidence in her talents that she knows what she's writing is utterly unique, and so she keeps on writing more of it, sentence by sentence, until she gets to the perfect ending as if led there by her very own personal literary god, a small-g god in this case--because this particular literary god is spritely, and pagan, and more than a little naughty. Yep.
5894551574	Niestety mi się to bardzo, ale to bardzo nie podobało. Czytałam, bo do samego końca miałam nadzieję zrozumieć, ale mi się nie udało. 😕Wyobraźcie sobie jakiś Wasz najbardziej pokręcony sen, który nie ma sensu i którego nie pamiętacie tuż po wstaniu. To ja i ta książka xd
3068767700	I have, like, no clue what I just read. A post-feminist Fight Club? A sort-of inverted Traumnovelle / Eyes Wide Shut? An appeal for Bunnies or an ode to wolves? The writing was interesting-very uber-millennial complete with emojis, selfies, self-indulgent musing, semi-pretentious name-dropping, sarcasm-laden descriptions.I stare at them all through Kira's pink heart-shaped glasses. This is how she must see the world all the time. I look at their dark pink faces, so suddenly grave. I should call the police. I should run to Mexico. (p. 109)Samantha/Smackie is a grad student at a prestigious (pour ne pas dire pretentious) university in a northeastern city (that strongly resembles Boston where the author currently lives according to Wikipedia). It is hard to tell apart what is pure fantasy from Samatha's overactive imagination and what is real, but she is definitely wired differently than just about everyone. Her erstwhile best-friend, Ava, is the polar opposite to the somewhat cannibalistic Bunnies (Eleonore/Duchess, Kira/Creepy Doll, Victoria/Vignette, Caroline/Cupcake) who are in Sam's writing Workshop with the formidable Ursula/KareKare. Ava represents her tragic past (mother died of a car accident when she was 13, her father on the lamb because of poor business decisions) and the Bunnies represent a privileged life which Facebook and Instagram and Disney promise to us if we are starborn and, preferably, white, blonde, and blue-eyed. Naturally, there is a tension between these two worlds existing in Sam's psyche which gets eventually personified in the Max/Ax/Wolf character later in the book. She is attracted to the capitalist dream that the Bunnies represent, but also repulsed by it - wanting to give in and wanting to fight, Ultimately, she only goes halfway: and that's when I realize that whatever pain I have, whatever true want I have that lives under all this greasy, spineless needing to please, isn't something I want to give them. (p. 169)Things start out normal-enough and quickly become bizarre with violence, drugs, and sexual fantasies all mixed up like a frozen cocktail of Cray 👻🌷 (as one of the Bunnie's messages on Sam's phone might say). And then the reality drops out the bottom for about 2/3 of the book. There is a little bit of clarity at the end, but even that is elusive at best. Overall, I would say it is a sort of amped-up, millennial version of a schizophrenic, anti-establishment story like Fight Club from a female perspective. A fun and interesting, if somewhat disturbing, read.
5210328450	i think i just had a fever dream where i was transported into a melanie martinez music video while tripping out on acid. i honestly might change this rating but i’ve never had a book leave me so confused pretty much the whole way through. sometimes it was too confusing to the point where i didn’t know why i was reading it and i felt like the dumbest person for not understanding, but other times i was just intrigued and wanting to finish it so i can get the answers i wanted. about halfway (?) through you get a little idea of what’s going on when she’s on the bus, and i definitely caught on and went oh my god that’s what this all is! but then there were so many other things in the story that had me confused and still asking questions. like what is this school? what happened between her and the professor? who exactly are the bunnies? i had a couple theories i dismissed early on which ended up being right, but it didn’t even matter because the way this is written is just meant to confuse you. even if you kind of understand what’s happening. like the randomest shit just gets thrown in here. i felt like i was going crazy. i think i felt my brain altering. i might be a little bit crazy now. will i never be the same again? would i recommend this book? i don’t think i can really say yes or no. i personally don’t regret reading it. and i will definitely never forget this book. because it’s fucked. lemme tell you that. i loved some parts and disliked others. i personally love the way it ended. it suits the book very well. but i can see why some people could hate this book.this was a wild ride to say the least. was confused 99.8% of the time but twas a once in a lifetime experience if i do say so myself. i mean, hey, understanding the plot of a book can be so overrated sometimes you know what i mean??
2999432822	I really hate writing negative reviews, but this is honestly just pretentious nonsense with absolutely zero substance. This tried so hard to be provocative, seemingly just for shock value? But it failed. Hard. Add in some of the worst “woman on woman hate” I have ever had to read, and a big old dollop of “women literally losing their minds over a man” and you have one huge pile of NOPE in book form. I’m actually mad read this. Whomp whomp.
3284528725	I just reread this book for the second time, and I loved it just as much the second time. This book is incredibly weird, but I got sooooo much more out of it with this reread and it made me appreciate it even more. I could talk about this book all day.Original review: This is the strangest book I’ve ever read but I kind of loved it. I recently just read this for a video having absolutely no idea what it was about or what to expect but I’m genuinely surprised by how much I enjoyed this. I think the other reviewers comparisons are completely accurate, this story is: Mean Girls meets Frankenstein meets The Secret History meets Jennifer’s Body... and it also reminds me a lot of the movie Sorry to Bother You as well..?But this story is so fucking weird and strange and like nothing I’ve ever read before. And the writing is so damn good and interesting and kind of beautiful? But this story is fucking terrifying at times, and all the characters are bizarre but there’s just something about it... Here’s the reading vlog where I read this: https://youtu.be/uitYgdWObpk
4805693379	i want to know the author's creative process behind this (and by creative process i mean the drugs she was on)
6893504886	I... don't even know wtf that was, but I liked it. Total fever dream. 😉🐇➽───4 Broke My Brain Stars───❥I just want to add -bc I know many people are on the fence about picking this one up. I feel like this is either a love it or hate it book. It can be polarizing- BUT if you are a fan of wildly out there books with an ample dose of insanity... pick this up.If you enjoyed Frankenstein, Mean Girls, Alice and Wonderland and in general a 'wtf am I even reading' feeling - and would love to combine them into one mishmash and certifiable tale.👏 Waste 👏 No 👏 More 👏 Time 👏 Fuuuuccc it. Let's get wild and scramble my brain with this fever dream of a story... 😉
4053661278	i think i had too high of expectations for this book because this gave absolutely nothing, i’m like so disappointed because i expected so much from this book 😭 and as a Heather’s fan i’m mad yall keep comparing because they share no similarities besides having all the girls share a name. It’s also not dark comedy cus aint shit funny in this book. I think for a dark academia book to have supernatural aspect it needed to at least explain that. I don’t mind unexplainable things or weird books but when you have supernatural things and don’t explain it, it comes off a bit lazy. i wanted to like this so so so much because i thought that the Bunny’s and what they were doing was intrigued but also by the end i was bored as hell and it ended up being 3 stars instead of 4. i have never felt as though i wanted more from a book by the end like i did for this book. im so sad guys :(
2847206126	This book is pure demented madness.I loved it. I loved all of it and I think all of you weirdos should read it because you might just love it too. Just don’t ask me what it was about because I have no idea what the heck I just read and I am perfectly fine with that, haha!I was in a huge book funk when my friend Emily recommend this book to me as a must read. She knows her stuff and I listened and it was exactly what I needed. I blew through this book in two days on audio and was so involved at one point that I walked into the shower with my headphones still in my ears. By some strange turn of fate, I did not fry my earbuds or what is left of my brain and now I think may shell out some bucks for water-proof earbuds because I think I just found myself a few more minutes of reading time! I think you should go into this book as blind as possible and I’m not going to be the one to spoil any of its surprises and will keep it brief. Samantha is a graduate student working on her MFA degree. She has to go to “workshop” in order to complete her degree and, too bad for her, this workshop is infested with a cliquey group of young women who wear dresses with cupcakes and kittens on them, who only eat itty-bitty food and who twitter and coo and call each other Bunny. They ignored the darkling Samantha the previous year except to bitterly and cruelly critique her work. Samantha is pretty okay with the status quo because who the hell wants to be a Bunny?! But one day Samantha receives a rare and coveted invitation to one of their “Slut Salons” and isn’t sure what to do. But she’s as nosy as me, apparently, and against her better judgement she goes and the story pretty much goes batshit crazy from that point on and I couldn’t describe it if I tried. It truly has to be read to be believed. So go read it!This book is surreal, deliciously evil, and wickedly funny and the writing is weirdly addictive. It’s getting all the stars because I loved every single twisted turn and madness infused word within its pages. You probably won’t know exactly what you’ve read once you finish it but I bet you’ll be happy you read it.“The night is a dark earth I could dig my hands into forever.”
3384084511	November 2025:It took me forever and thirty two days to finish this reread. I restarted a bajillion times. And I STILL don't feel fully prepared. Though I am confident that I am as prepared as a human could be expected to be to discuss this book. What I am most excited about is sharing my in-depth flip through of my highly annotated copy that has many full page illustrations and an insane amount of annotations and post it notes and theories and piecing together the elaborate and intricate puzzle that is this book. ugh, what an amazing journey.July 2025:You'll never guess! I got to page 238 out of 302 and decided to go back to the beginning AGAIN because I discovered new things that needed to be looked into. New possible meanings behind certain things. And more questions that need answered. Or possible answers for previously pondered questions...I'm insufferable, I know.February 2025:Paused my reading at 203 pages in -- The reread of this was to solidify my beliefs and understandings of this book. I had seven different highlighters and pens and tabs to match them. I was on a ROLL. *Cut to: Me receiving the arc for We Love You, Bunny*. Hmmm, okay maybe I don't have all the facts. Let's see what the prequel/sequel has to say first...January 2025: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I read this with my Patron's as a revisit into our origin story lol. I've been an infamous hater of this audiobook but have never actually given it a shot. In 2020, on my first read, I attempted the audio for maybe 2 minutes before swiftly deleting the file and moving forward physically.I promised my Patron's I would listen to it in it's entirety to let them know if it is genuinely terrible or if I was being elitist because it's a favorite book of mine.It was hard. Let me tell you. I had to bury all three copies of Bunny under a mound of other books just to stop me from switching to the physical read. But I survived and am here to give you my final thoughts on the audio experience...Don't do it.It's not horrible. The audiobook is fine. Except for Creepy Doll's voice. That voice is the antithesis of her characteristics and made me hate a character I love. I immediately went on Pinterest to look at Creepy-Doll-aesthetics in order to rid myself of the taint the narrator tried to instill in me for this gorgeous, messed up, weird as fuck character. I'm still in recovery but am on the other side. Thanks for asking.Since this was my third read, and I had already done so much research and deep-thinking on the goings on of this book, listening to it didn't affect me a great deal. HOWEVER if you've never read this before PLEASE read it physically.I say, read it, then go on reddit or watch any of my videos on Patreon where I analyze this book, metabolize the theories, then read the book again. I'm telling you it's worth it. This is one of the best books I've ever read. I'm going to get a tattoo of this book. Something I've never done. Having only two very small tattoos currently. It will be of the quote that hits me right in the heart and speaks to me as Katie Colson. That's "We we're already running away again, me and my imagination".I just picked up the physical book for a whopping fourth time to immediately reread it. I want to do an in-depth analysis of this on YouTube where I will discuss theories and evidence to support those theories. If you have any questions or topics you want to be discussed, please let me know. You can leave them in the comments here or on the January Wrap Up video I posted where I discuss my reread of Bunny.October 2021: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Reading Vlog: https://youtu.be/ce-CachMztYApparently I have been COMPLETELY mistaken about what was going on in this book the WHOLE TIME. I did a little Reddit searching for conspiracy theories only to find people who described the plot in its entirety that made everything make actual sense. I've been out here fantasizing. After finding that out, I reread it and was so happy to find I liked it even more. Still 5 stars. Still a favorite. I love Mona Awad's writing style. She is a fking weirdo writing books for other fking weirdos. I adore the way the Bunny's are described in this book. Unfortunately, I am not someone who pictures things when I read. But this book had me imagining everything down to the clothes. Ava, Creepy Doll and Vignette are my favorites by far. They are savage and iconic. Their brutal humor had me rolling.I annotated the sh*t out of this book. This is also the third edition of this book that I own. It is my only multiple edition book.Going to reread this one next Halloween hopefully.June 2020: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️whatthefuckwhatthefuckwhatthefuck
2852619562	Okay, what just happened here?I'll quote one of the characters to explain my feelings about Bunny--"And then I feel like screaming JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL ME WHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS."The publisher's blurb doesn't even begin to capture what happens in Bunny. At first, I thought I'd be reading an R rated version of Mean Girls. As I read, I found that wasn't quite right, so then I thought, "Okay, maybe it's Stephen King does Mean Girls." It turned out that that description didn't capture it, either. The best I can come up with is "Stephen King trips on acid and writes an R rated Mean Girls."Bunny is so strange that it's hard to form an opinion, but I think I liked it. (Maybe my opinion will change after I sit with it a bit, or maybe I'll be equally as confused.) The weirdness did make some parts of the the plot hard to follow, but I think Bunny is supposed to be disorienting by design. On another note, I appreciated Awad's sense of humor, which is on full display when she describes the Bunnies for the first time. She definitely places us right inside the MC's head!This novel is so odd that it's not going to be for everyone, but I'd rate this a 3.5/5 rounded up to 4 stars.Thanks to Edelweiss and Viking for providing me with a DRC of this novel.
6308632249	I can’t tell if it was the sleep deprivation or this book driving me to insanity...I don’t think I’ll ever be able to look at bunny’s the same again after this book… It’s creepy, blood thirsty, unnerving, witty and packed full of satire. I can’t tell if it’s brilliant or absurd. I can only describe this is a mix between mean girls x dark academia x horror. Bunny will make you question what’s real, what’s fake and the constant twists will make you doubt your theories. I’ve never been so confused while reading a book but I have to give it to the author, her writing skill is fantastic. At times it felt like a bunch of random words thrown into a sentence together but this only adds to message the book is trying to send. There is also underlying metaphors on society as a whole, such as wealth & status. It closely examines friendship, desire and social isolation. I don't love opened ended conclusions or being constantly confused without a resolution so this stopped me from rating this higher. I have come to a conclusion on what I think this book means but I can't delve into that without spoiling. I think it's intended to have multiple different perspectives on what happened. The ending is a bit anti-climatic so don't expect a big 'ah huh' moment. You won't get full closure, just more questions!Overall, this is not a casual read and will require some brain power. As disturbing as this was at times, it did have some funny moments because of how ridiculous it was. I wouldn’t recommend this to most people as it’s a bit out there. If you’re looking for some entertainment and have a strong stomach, this one might be for you! Thanks to my girl Meagan for buddy reading this with me, we finally finished it! I wouldn’t have been able to get through this alone 🤭🫶🏼⎯⎯ ୨ Pre-review: ୧ ⎯⎯I have no idea what I'm getting myself into but we're in this together bestie Meagan 👯‍♀️🤝🐇
4090914090	i dont know what the fuck i just read. i dont know why im emotional about it by the end. i dont know why i fucking loved it.
4626215817	“Bunny” by Mona Awad started off really interesting and then goes into some very weird uncharted waters. I see this is considered a horror novel but it has elements of fantasy that ends up just making things really confusing when events and situations start happening.I personally didn’t mind it as it started to make me really engaged and excited to see where things were going. The problem is I started to notice that things started to get a bit boring with way too much dialogue that is repeated and not properly explained. I think if Awad spent more time explaining this whole bunny angle and putting a better horror twist on it, things could have gotten better as the novel progressed.Unfortunately, the buildup to the ending felt really flat. I was expecting so much more and even in my head came up with a few scenarios that could have really turned this into a blockbuster of a novel. It started out really creepy, lost some momentum, picked up a bit, lost more momentum, got super interesting/weird, then lost even more momentum, and then the ending came and it was extremely lame. I literally had at least two scenarios for the ending that was significantly better than what ultimately ended up happening. I was left with a “THAT’S IT?!!?!?” moment once I finished and I hated it.I felt the main protagonist, Samantha, was mostly a whiner from start to finish and the moments she could have redeemed herself never came. Every character with the exception of Ava and Max was uninteresting. I felt all the different “bunnies” made things even more confusing as they have nicknames, then real names, then they become interchanged so you start to forget who is who and just keep reading to see what happens because they’re too generic. Way too many pages dedicated to dialogue that didn’t really add anything when it mattered most and felt like it was rambling most of the time.I give “Bunny” by Mona Awad a 2/5 as her writing style is great but things could have been scarier and fleshed out more to the point where this could have been a better horror novel. I didn’t even feel this was even a real horror novel and felt more like a young adult novel with a weird dark fantasy twist. The ending didn’t deliver as I thought it was and it’s a shame, I enjoyed reading this to a degree due to the curiosity of what the hell was going on but it went downhill quickly for me at around 70% on. Overall, I ended up being pretty disappointed with this one and am looking forward to my next read.
7893472316	3.5 unhinged ⭐️ rounded up due to the ending. 🤯Honestly, I don’t even know how to describe this book except to call it a stream of consciousness fever dream. If Heathers, Mean Girls, and The Craft had a baby, this would be it. The story is bizarre and completely unhinged, and I don’t think I could write a truly coherent review even if I tried. For most of the book I kept asking myself WTF is going on. It made my brain hurt, but in a strangely satisfying way.Samantha’s observations were razor sharp, but she tended to keep them tucked away and unspoken. Parts of the book were laugh out loud funny while others were downright disturbing. I was confused about what was going on for most of the story, but I absolutely needed to know. I’m glad I stuck with it because the ending was so good it had me rereading the last paragraph more than once.I'm so glad I had my buddy Brooke to discuss this one with because I had SO many questions and thoughts about it. TW: I did have to skip two scenes involving actual bunnies. We have four free roam bunnies at home and those moments would have been way too triggering for me.
2769213130	Okay so I have no idea what the heck happened in this book. I got the basic premise: we follow Samantha Mackey, an MFA student at Warren University, an elite college school in New England. Samantha hates the Bunnies, a clique of four rich, popular female students who hug each other a lot and say fake nice things about each other’s writing. Samantha’s feelings toward the Bunnies start to shift though when they invite her to their Smut Salon, a night entrenched in mystery and erotica. After Samantha starts to integrate into the Bunnies’ clique, she begins to lose her sense of what is real and what is imagined about herself and others, just as I lost my sense of the plot of this book as it progressed.I found this book, especially the first half, pretty hilarious. I loved Mona Awad’s satirical writing style and how she pokes fun at the elitist and oftentimes classist culture that exists within MFA programs (which I think also exists at other institutions of higher education.) Certain lines cracked me up, such as when she describes the bunnies’ skins as “glowing with health insurance” and how one of the bunnies describes her “inaccessible and cryptic” writing as “proems.” I appreciated the themes of how individual identity can fold to groupthink, the allure of the unknown and the risky, as well as how the isolation of a writer’s life and of anyone’s life can elicit some pretty hectic and painful emotions and life experiences.I just have no idea what really happened about halfway in through the book. Perhaps that’s the point as several others also felt lost and still liked the novel – maybe that’s the point, like this book is an acid trip and you don’t really have to know what’s going on to enjoy the ride. I’m not sure whether I wanted a more navigable plot or a more consistent main character, because I found it difficult to care about or empathize with Samantha through the book. I feel that the book perhaps serves its purpose and description well, as a Heathers meets Mean Girls meets horror film meets snobby MFA mashup, though I wanted it to reach my heart more, regardless of whether that was the book’s intent.
6727489637	time of death: page 121 💀no thank you 🙂‍↔️*fall tbr jar prompt: unhinged + weird
3504949321	This is the strangest fucking book I've ever read. I'm not sure if it's fever-dream, schizophrenic stream-of-consciousness or surrealism satire but I still really liked this weird-ass book. Like watching Heathers while on acid. I may not be smart enough to figure it out but I couldn't put it down.
4208768867	if i wake up tomorrow and find out that i hallucinated this book i’m not going to be surprised. what the fuck did i just read? and why was it so good?
2876751682	“The poets brace themselves for imminent, overeducated poverty.”Samantha Heather Mackey couldn’t be more of an outsider in her small, highly selective MFA program at New England’s Warren University. She is utterly repelled by the rest of her fiction writing cohort - a clique of unbearably twee rich girls who call each other “Bunny”. But everything changes when Samantha receives an invitation to the Bunnies’ fabled “Smut Salon”...Wickedly funny and deliciously dark, Bunny is a messed up fever dream that I did not want to wake up from!!It’s best to know as little as possible before starting this one. I really had no clue what was coming, and it was a helluva ride! It gets very dark and pretty brutal at times, there are some violent scenes. However, this contrasts nicely with Awad’s often hilarious writing and the saccharine characters in their beautifully patterned dresses and heart-shaped sunglasses.There’s lots of “what the fuck just happened” moments and at times when I think back over it, I’m still unsure exactly what was going on at points. This would certainly benefit from a reread in the future! However, Bunny lives up to its reputation of a book described as “The Heathers meets The Craft” - I truly can’t come up with a better selling point than that! I’ve also seen it described as “The Secret History meets Jennifer’s Body”, which also seems absolutely perfect!Set at an Ivy League university in New England, this ticks a number of boxes in terms of location for me. It’s a book that also seemingly pokes fun at prestigious MFA programs and I feel like Awad has a lot of fun with that!It won’t be a hit for everyone, but I’m a tad obsessed with this book and would recommend giving it a shot if it appeals to you in any way! One of the most unique and enjoyable books I’ve read this year. 4.5 stars.
2881589430	Loved the snarky sentences for awhile, but riding the rollercoaster of caustic commentary has only so much charm - eventually this book starts to feel as mean-spirited and vacuous as the rest of our modern discourse. The ubiquitousness of this way of telling stories makes me feel like a sick and drowning rat in a raging storm sewer. This is not a feeling I turn to literature to have.If you suspect everyone may be a nightmare human and want to have those feelings validated, this is your book. Having had my own grad school agonies, I understand this was probably written in the heat of that very special circle of hell. But I need not dwell there to comprehend it. I quit before the end.
4532996583	wtf?! i actually can’t even put it into words it’s so strange! i felt like i was on a bad trip the whole time, tbh i don’t think i fully understand what was real and what wasn’t… but how fun is that?! it’s so up for your own interpretation, but the feelings of being lonely, having no purpose or direction are definitely there really enjoyed it :)
5998050993	reading this felt like you're about to start a weird drug trip but as you were getting high someone slaps you in the face and you suddenly forget whatever you were just doingthat's it. that's the review.
3193239178	Bunny is just so very. You know? So. Very. I don’t even know how to put the jumble of fragmented WTFs and Huh?s tumbling about my brain into a coherent review, so I won’t even try. I’ll just say that this is the most confusingly fascinatingly unique labyrinth of a novel I’ve ever read. And while I have no idea what was real and what wasn’t, or even what the real purpose was, I enjoyed the f*ck out of reading it. So here’s 5 stars, and I’ll come back with an update once I have the chance to reread and ruminate. I’ll miss you, Bunny!! 👻*trigger warnings for graphic violence
6537919295	4,5⭐️?Trafia do mnie ta narkotyczna halucynacja.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NztF-...
5411343030	2 starsWhether this was good or bad, I can’t really tell, because I don’t like books that I can’t understand the point of. this was a case of either I was stupid or the book was. I think it was the latter. Also, I just couldn’t with all of the bunnyism. If I hear one more bunny I might commit murder.
5882903257	this is the strangest book i have ever read.
7810431674	3.75 ⭐️ Alice in Wonderland meets Fight Club meets Mean Girls… weird freaky and a little spooky but I liked it?? I laughed and also felt like I was on a really bad trip for most of this book, but I think that was the point??
3898232233	This was everything i’d ever want in a book. It was weird, it was unhinged, it had so much more going on behind the surface than I initially thoughtBrb pre-ordering Rouge
2706160856	Samantha is a graduate student with writer's block. She's from a poor background and doesn't really fit in at moneyed Warren University, where her four workshop partners have formed an insular clique. They call themselves the Bunnies – they literally all call each other 'Bunny' – and their conversations are studded with declarations of love, cliched Instagram-hashtag phrases and sycophantic compliments on the brilliance and originality of one another's work. From the sidelines, Samantha finds it nauseating, even as she nurses a deep envy.Something's off about Warren from the beginning. Though it's an Ivy League school, its environs are plagued by frequent incidences of extreme violence (random decapitations, for example). It made me think of Buffy the Vampire Slayer's Sunnydale – with all the weirdness erupting around Warren, there has to be something Hellmouth-ish about this place. As seen through Samantha's eyes, the Bunnies are putting on a grotesque pantomime act as simpering sorority sisters, their cutesy, indulgent personalities taken to such extremes that they cross over into horror. And when Samantha is finally invited to join the club, she discovers exactly how far and how deep that horror goes.The main problem with Bunny is Samantha's best friend, Ava. The way she speaks to Samantha is, I guess, intended as appealingly blunt – an antidote to the Bunnies' cloying, insincere sweetness – but it just comes off as nasty most of the time. An 'art school drop-out' who carries a flask of alcohol labelled 'Drink Me', says things like 'the breeze is my lover' and goes around wearing a fishnet veil, she's basically the 10 most insufferable hipsters you've ever met combined into one person. As it turns out, there are reasons for Ava's bluntness and clicheness, but I'm not convinced her appearances are meant to be as irritating as I found them.On the other hand, the Bunnies are ostensibly the villains, but they're great, such fun to read about. A mean girl clique subverted; identikit teen-drama bitches given agency, wit and dark appetites. They may be awful, but they're awful in such novel ways – airheads who are fiercely intelligent, saccharine child-women who revel in power and blood – that I loved them. The hallucinatory chapter in which Samantha submits to the Bunnies' hivemind is probably the best segment of the book: trippy, dreamlike, creepy as fuck. I wanted more of the Bunnies, more of Samantha-and-the-Bunnies, and less Samantha-on-her-own, less Ava. (Preferably no Ava at all.)The blurb positions Bunny as 'The Vegetarian meets Heathers', which is maybe more useful than accurate: the reference to The Vegetarian serves as a handy indicator of how incredibly weird it is, but tells you nothing about the story. Personally, I'd say Bunny reminded me of Marisha Pessl's Special Topics in Calamity Physics crossed with the craziest, most far-fetched parts of David Mitchell's Slade House, and I'd be inclined to reference Buffy and Chilling Adventures of Sabrina instead of Heathers. It also made me think of Katie Lowe's The Furies, which in some ways is the inverse of this novel – grimly, disgustingly real where Bunny is all bizarro Technicolor – but both are about young women experimenting with black magic, and both are full to bursting with lush, overblown prose.It's just so much, but in a good way. And I would love to see a film or TV adaptation. My mouth is watering just imagining the luxuriant excess and creative gore of this story on screen.I received an advance review copy of Bunny from the publisher through Edelweiss.TinyLetter | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
2979173202	My reaction from beginning to end:????????????????????????????????????????I read this book because everyone says it’s the weirdest shit they’ve ever read. I’m now joining that group of people. Duh. It's just impossible to finish this book and remain sane at the same time.I'm so confused? I kind of understand the main goal of the book and part of what went on, but the rest is a blur. And I don't know if that's a good or a bad thing. The only thing I know for sure is that I would describe this book as a "fever dream" and not as horror. I would still applaud the author for what she was able to do. I always look for books that make me question the main character's credibility and this book was on a whole other level in that sense.My main complaint is not that this was too weird (even if I am unsure what purpose the bunnies really had in all of this) but rather that the pacing was off. I found myself very interested at times, and then very bored for big chunks. Which is not great if as a reader you're already trying to piece together things that don't make sense.
3189997484	While I really appreciate the weirdness of this, I ended up being bored quite a lot.
6298277597	I couldn’t feel my brain when I read this, but I vehemently and questionably loved every fucking minute of it. Envision Mean Girls, blended with dark academia attributes, and conspicuously thrown in with therapy sessions that may be yearned for.Actually they will be longed for but that’s alright cause the fervently profound fuck shit going on in here was worth it to the maximum 👏. A trip. Mind numbing and circuitous turn of events coinciding with weirdness, darkness, disgust, allure, questionable motives, and crude humor. The profundity of all these underlying reasons equating to me being problematic - in terms of relishing it all. I am indisputably content here. Bunny staying intrinsic to it’s name, conjures an imagery of a clique proclaimed as the title - consisting of four woman. Bunnies. Girlies. Besties. All exuberantly living that university life.Joining them, you have our female main Character, Samantha. An individual that conveys cynicism, external/internal loathe, and eccentricity to the brim. Now a totality of five bunnies undertake themselves on making your eyebrows arch all the way up, inclining you to emit the biggest what the fuck is this expression inexplicably, where it becomes throughly laughable. Nah really, these darlings do and say the most stupidest shit ever, that I actually built up likeness toward all of them. Im a fan, now 🗣️💀All jokes aside and being deranged with enthused laugher, the tonality is engaging. It’s unserious, and employs impressive daring satire that unfolds itself in a riveting manner. My enjoyment is credited to the premise, and the vibes of simply being in unhinged territory beginning to end. I wanted something weird, and I got that. Not going to forget it either. Also the ambiguity is real. Yes this is a silly novel, but the ending is perfect to stem up creative theories that hold significance too. If you know you know. Utterly and stupidly entertaining, morally depraved, and adequate in digestible page length - this is the most glove fitting for a buddy read , where y’all just let the vibes bunny hop all over that thing we call our logic. It wont exist, because not a thing is supposed to make sense here. Pick this up, grab a friend, let curiosity get the best of you. Make fun of this, feel perplexed, and have the utmost fun with it. Thank me or hate me for it, but Read this. 🐇😂Pre review Apparently this is extremely unhinged and trippy therefore If I don’t make the biggest what the fuck is this face while reading this imma be disappointed 🗣️
5972147584	коротко: перемога пінтерестської естетики над змістом і формою 1/5. ну воно ніяке( не коротко: одразу зазначу, що чекала я на цей переклад довго і самовіддано. передусім через те, що ця книжка головує у кожному списку літератури, схожої на yellowjackets. ну і почуте в інтернеті обіцяло як мінімум незвичайний досвід, як максимум — шось дійсно збочене, геніально-йобнуте, непересічне і мозковикручувальне. карочє, продавали мені феміністичний контркультурний шедевр, а купила я треш, піздєц і дешевий угар. проти якого нічого не маю і зазвичай навіть люблю, але знову ж, тут було обіцяно інше. на обкладинці написано «геніальний» і потверджено іменем маргарет етвуд. ба більше — навіть попри невідповідність очікуванням, ця книга мала мені сподобатися. треш, червона кров на рожевому оксамиті, керрол, чорний гумор, сюр, тісний жіночий колектив, ізоляція, пошуки дому, самотність — усі компоненти на місці. не спрацювало. найбільша проблема: це просто погано написано — воно не тримається купи, речення-гомункули розпадаються, губляться самі в собі — це постійна проблема, у другій частині речення авторка забуває про шо йшлося в першій. очевидні речі показані як шось загадкове і таємниче, та ще й з таким апломбом, шо очі закочуються. добирання слів часто не має сенсу і звучить пафосно і надумано. «серйозне місячне світло», блять. я підозрюю, що це посилання на пісню девіда боуї, з яким саманта асоціює аву, але цього забагато, кожне речення таке дивне — не в хорошому сенсі, і найчастіше не має навіть такого притягнутого за вуха пояснення. а ці речення-цвяшки — короткі і нібито влучні, які вона повторює, імітуючи паланіка… крииинж. я часом заглядала в оригінал, бо сподівалася, що проблема в перекладі. ні, все дійсно настільки хуйово. та й часто буквальний переклад теж не поліпшив ситуації… непогано: 1. деякі спостереження за багатими і привілейованими. «Гляньте на білих людей у чорному вбранні, які обговорюють отримані гранти на переклад з французької віршів поетів, яких ніхто не читає». «Шкіра промениться медичним страхуванням». «…зависання з вдавано бідними і модно неврівноваженими, тобто зі студентством мистецької школи». 2. смішки над диханням маткою. але вони швидко перейшли у неприхований і невигадливий сексизм. це не книжка про те, що рожевий може бути чим завгодно. та у цьому сенсі «білявка в законі» прогресивніша. і цікавіша. і душі має побільше. 3. висміювання творчих учбових закладів. це вийшло доволі точно. усі події цієї книжки — типовий вівторок у харківській державній академії культури. мало б сподобатися, але натомість курвить: 1. повсякчасні великодки з керролівською «алісою», посилання на всяких там юлій крістевих, але це реалізовано грубо й у лоба, пустий неймдропінґ, тож meh 2. овердраматизація, яка мала б спричиняти комічний ефект, але не робе. сюди ж паланіковські речення-цвяшки. усе це навмисно й маломайстерно ускладнене калашбродиво потім охрестили сатирою, але найчастіше мені було смішно, коли авторка того не задумувала. бо ну не вийде так — понаграфоманити, посипати все це парочкою вимушених жартів про анаїс нін і «власну кімнату», і всьо, тепер це в нас інтелектуальний роман і вопше сатира. ага. не найобуй ☝️(с) іздрик фелікс улюблені перли: «Вона здригається від вигляду великих дерев, наче то й не дерева зовсім, а щось по-справжньому лихе, наче все це рожево-білясте світло, яким кампус ніби вічно омитий, ось-ось зацідить їй в обличчя страшним кулаком заможності» «Від її туманної усмішки моя шкіра виповзає з кімнати»«— Нам потрібен член, який хуяритиме»«Ми слухаємо, наче її голос самотньої голубки — це ванна, в якій ми тонемо»
5856337507	*slams book shut* Brilliant 😵‍💫Everyone needs read this. Cause wtf was that??
3077047789	Substack & Bookstagram 0.5/5 mhmmmm. well that was pointless.
5021307544	Top 5 tego roku
2980598184	what the fuck?
5258342670	Ok, ale totalnie nie wiem co o Tobie myśleć książkoEDIT: wiem, że nic nie wiem and i love it
5573984729	—— 𝟒.𝟓 ✰ stars. 🐇 ❝𝐿𝒶𝓊𝑔𝒽𝓉𝑒𝓇 𝒾𝓈 𝒶 𝓇𝒶𝒷𝒷𝒾𝓉 𝒽𝑜𝓁𝑒 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝐼'𝓂 𝒻𝒶𝓁𝓁𝒾𝓃𝑔, 𝒻𝒶𝓁𝓁𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓁𝒾𝓀𝑒 𝒜𝓁𝒾𝒸𝑒. 𝒯𝒽𝑒𝓇𝑒 𝒾𝓈 𝓃𝑜 𝓌𝒶𝓎 𝓊𝓅 𝑜𝓇 𝑜𝓊𝓉. 𝒯𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝓁𝓎 𝓌𝒶𝓎 𝒾𝓈 𝒹𝑜𝓌𝓃, 𝒹𝑜𝓌𝓃, 𝒹𝑜𝓌𝓃. 𝒯𝒽𝑒 𝑜𝓃𝓁𝓎 𝓌𝒶𝓎 𝒾𝓈 𝓉𝑜 𝓀𝑒𝑒𝓅 𝒻𝒶𝓁𝓁𝒾𝓃𝑔. 𝒮𝓊𝒸𝒸𝓊𝓂𝒷.❞ 📚 || 𝐁𝐮𝐧𝐧𝐲 𝐛𝐲 𝐌𝐨𝐧𝐚 𝐀𝐰𝐚𝐝⤷ buddy read with Nancy ♡ check out her review!📖 || 𝐅𝐨𝐫𝐦𝐚𝐭: ℙ𝕙𝕪𝕤𝕚𝕔𝕒𝕝 𝔹𝕠𝕠𝕜🏷️ || 𝐆𝐞𝐧𝐫𝐞: 𝔹𝕦𝕓𝕓𝕝𝕖𝕘𝕦𝕞 ℍ𝕠𝕣𝕣𝕠𝕣, 𝕄𝕒𝕘𝕚𝕔𝕒𝕝 ℝ𝕖𝕒𝕝𝕚𝕤𝕞, 𝔾𝕠𝕥𝕙𝕚𝕔 𝔽𝕚𝕔𝕥𝕚𝕠𝕟, 𝔻𝕒𝕣𝕜 ℂ𝕠𝕞𝕖𝕕𝕪📆 || 𝐃𝐚𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐑𝐞𝐚𝐝: 𝟡/𝟞/𝟚𝟝 - 𝟡/𝟙𝟙/𝟚𝟝📃 || 𝐒𝐲𝐧𝐨𝐩𝐬𝐢𝐬 「 “Samantha couldn't be more of an outsider in her small, highly selective MFA program at New England's Warren University. She is utterly repelled by the rest of her fiction writing cohort; a clique of unbearably twee rich girls who call each other "Bunny," who seem to move and speak as one. But everything changes when Samantha receives an invitation to the Bunnies' fabled "Smut Salon.” As Samantha plunges down the rabbit hole, the edges of reality begin to blur.” 」❝ “𝒲𝒽𝓎 𝒹𝑜 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓁𝒾𝑒 𝓈𝑜 𝓂𝓊𝒸𝒽? 𝒜𝓃𝒹 𝒶𝒷𝑜𝓊𝓉 𝓉𝒽𝑒 𝓌𝑒𝒾𝓇𝒹𝑒𝓈𝓉 𝓁𝒾𝓉𝓉𝓁𝑒 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓃𝑔𝓈?” 𝓂𝓎 𝓂𝑜𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝒶𝓁𝓌𝒶𝓎𝓈 𝒶𝓈𝓀𝑒𝒹 𝓂𝑒.𝐼 𝒹𝑜𝓃'𝓉 𝓀𝓃𝑜𝓌, 𝐼 𝒶𝓁𝓌𝒶𝓎𝓈 𝓈𝒶𝒾𝒹.𝐵𝓊𝓉 𝐼 𝒹𝒾𝒹 𝓀𝓃𝑜𝓌.𝐼𝓉 𝓌𝒶𝓈 𝓋𝑒𝓇𝓎 𝓈𝒾𝓂𝓅𝓁𝑒.𝐵𝑒𝒸𝒶𝓊𝓈𝑒 𝒾𝓉 𝓌𝒶𝓈 𝒶 𝒷𝑒𝓉𝓉𝑒𝓇 𝓈𝓉𝑜𝓇𝓎. ❞⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔ ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔❝ ”𝐼 𝑔𝓊𝑒𝓈𝓈 𝓈𝑜𝓂𝑒𝓉𝒾𝓂𝑒𝓈 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒸𝒶𝓃 𝒿𝓊𝓈𝓉 𝑔𝑜 𝓉𝑜𝑜 𝒻𝒶𝓇," 𝐼 𝑜𝒻𝒻𝑒𝓇 𝓁𝒾𝓀𝑒 𝒶 𝓅𝑒𝒶𝓇𝓁 𝑜𝒻 𝓌𝒾𝓈𝒹𝑜𝓂. "𝒜𝓃𝒹 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝓀𝓃𝑜𝓌, 𝓌𝒽𝑒𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝑔𝑜 𝓉𝑜𝑜 𝒻𝒶𝓇, 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓃 𝓎𝑜𝓊𝓇 𝒻𝓇𝒾𝑒𝓃𝒹𝓈 𝒸𝒶𝓃 𝒷𝓇𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓎𝑜𝓊 𝒷𝒶𝒸𝓀."❞ᴍʏ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: ★★★★½ɢᴏᴏᴅʀᴇᴀᴅꜱ ʀᴀᴛɪɴɢ: 𝟹.𝟺𝟽 ☆ ꜱᴛᴀʀꜱᴘᴀɪʀ ᴡɪᴛʜ: ᴘɪɴᴋʙᴇʀʀʏ 🍧 ᴡᴇᴀᴛʜᴇʀ: 🍂🌧️ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ɪ ʀᴇᴄᴏᴍᴍᴇɴᴅ?: ✅ ⊱ ────── {⋆ ‧₊˚♪𝄞 ⋆} ────── ⊰lıllılı.ıllı.ılılıılıı.lllııılı. ɴᴏᴡ ᴘʟᴀʏɪɴɢ: ʀᴀʙʙɪᴛ ʜᴇᴀʀᴛ — ꜰʟᴏʀᴇɴᴄᴇ + ᴛʜᴇ ᴍᴀᴄʜɪɴᴇ0:05 ———♡——— 3:52⇄ ◃◃ ⅠⅠ ▹▹ ↻╭───┆ ╰⪼ ❛the looking glass, so shiny and new. how quickly the glamour fades. I start spinning, slipping out of time, was that the wrong pill to take?❜⊱ ────── {⋆ ‧₊˚♪𝄞 ⋆} ────── ⊰ʀᴇᴀᴅ ɪꜰ ʏᴏᴜ ʟɪᴋᴇ:🐇 ᴛʜᴇ ʜᴇᴀᴛʜᴇʀꜱ 🎀 ᴅᴀʀᴋ ᴀᴄᴀᴅᴇᴍɪᴀ🧁 ʙᴜʙʙʟᴇɢᴜᴍ ʜᴏʀʀᴏʀ 🐇 ᴄᴜʟᴛɪꜱʜ ɢɪʀʟ ɢʀᴏᴜᴘꜱ🎀 ᴀʟɪᴄᴇ ɪɴ ᴡᴏɴᴅᴇʀʟᴀɴᴅ 🧁 ᴜɴʀᴇʟɪᴀʙʟᴇ ɴᴀʀʀᴀᴛᴏʀꜱ 🐇 ʙᴏᴏᴋꜱ ᴛʜᴀᴛ ꜰᴇᴇʟ ʟɪᴋᴇ ꜰᴇᴠᴇʀ ᴅʀᴇᴀᴍꜱ ⚠️TW: animal death, gore❝𝐼'𝓋𝑒 𝓃𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇 𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓁𝓁𝓎 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝓌𝓇𝒾𝓉𝓉𝑒𝓃, 𝓃𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇 𝓃𝑜𝓉 𝒽𝒶𝒹 𝒶𝓃𝑜𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝓁𝒹 𝑜𝒻 𝓂𝓎 𝑜𝓌𝓃 𝓂𝒶𝓀𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓉𝑜 𝑒𝓈𝒸𝒶𝓅𝑒 𝓉𝑜, 𝓃𝑒𝓋𝑒𝓇 𝓀𝓃𝑜𝓌𝓃 𝒽𝑜𝓌 𝓉𝑜 𝒷𝑒 𝒾𝓃 𝓉𝒽𝒾𝓈 𝓌𝑜𝓇𝓁𝒹 𝓌𝒾𝓉𝒽𝑜𝓊𝓉 𝓂𝑜𝓈𝓉 𝑜𝒻 𝓂𝓎 𝓈𝑜𝓊𝓁 𝒹𝓇𝑒𝒶𝓂𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝓊𝓅 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓁𝒾𝓋𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝒾𝓃 𝒶𝓃𝑜𝓉𝒽𝑒𝓇.❞ ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔ ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔💬 || 𝐓𝐡𝐨𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐭𝐬• I’m… kind of at a loss for words? Which is rare for a book to do to me. But this book has left its’ mark in a strange way. This isn’t going to be one of my ordinary reviews because Bunny is not your ordinary book. But man, did I love it. I’m going to straight up warn you right away: this will not be a book for everyone. I’m sure by now you all know I love my weird girl books and this might be the weird girl lit final boss. It was unhinged, gritty, hilarious, girly, gruesome, and had so many WTF moments, my head was spinning. Imagine if Alice and Wonderland + Mean Girls had a child together. Throw in a dash of Heathers, a pinch of The Craft… and voila; you’ve got Bunny. You will did indeed need some brain power to get through this, which I was not expecting, and I’m so glad that Nancy & I read this together because I don’t know how I would be able to do it alone. I loved talking about our theories and our general confusion. The ending though? Bumped my rating up and made me question everything I just read. Mona Awad knew just how to get me. Brilliant. *I might add more to this review as my brain continues to marinate with what I just read. I indeed fell down the rabbit hole with this book 🐇🕳️ ❝𝐵𝓊𝓉 𝐼 𝓌𝒶𝓈𝓃'𝓉 𝓁𝒾𝓈𝓉𝑒𝓃𝒾𝓃𝑔. 𝐼 𝓌𝒶𝓈𝓃'𝓉 𝓈𝓉𝑜𝓅𝓅𝒾𝓃𝑔. 𝐵𝑒𝒸𝒶𝓊𝓈𝑒 𝓌𝑒 𝓌𝑒𝓇𝑒 𝒶𝓁𝓇𝑒𝒶𝒹𝓎 𝓇𝓊𝓃𝓃𝒾𝓃𝑔 𝒶𝓌𝒶𝓎 𝒶𝑔𝒶𝒾𝓃, 𝓂𝑒 𝒶𝓃𝒹 𝓂𝓎 𝒾𝓂𝒶𝑔𝒾𝓃𝒶𝓉𝒾𝑜𝓃.” ❞⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔ ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔⏔ ⏔⏔⏔ ꒰ ᧔ෆ᧓ ꒱ ⏔⏔ 𝐵𝓎𝑒, 𝐵𝓊𝓃𝓃𝓎.𝐼 𝓁𝑜𝓋𝑒 𝓎𝑜𝓊, 𝐵𝓊𝓃𝓃𝓎.
2947503291	If you like poorly-written, pretentious millennial garbage, this book is for you! If you are into repeated use of expressions like “gave side-eye,” and long, jealous descriptions of expensive, twee clothing and make-up, then you probably won’t detest this weird, unfortunate book. I was up for a fun, silly book. The mental equivalent of Mean Girls and Heathers, but those were fun and stylish and they worked. This book doesn’t work, it’s not fun, and it is not stylish. Avoid.
5698066624	this book has very particular audience so I find it hard to believe EVERYBODY who read it cause of booktok just LOVED it even though they have never read weird horror before or after this book.... for me this is the worst book I read this year. and anyone saying they like it post 2022 is only doing it to be cool I fear. cause this isn't even interesting bad. its just BAD bad unless you always like this type of book. I do respect this book cause I know its intentionally niche
4384482922	i need a blunt to help process
4116487035	well that was fucking awesome! i really enjoy weird books in general, but especially anything to do with cults. i don't have too much to say about this one because i think it is a book you should go into with minimal prior knowledge, but one of my favourite things mona awad did in her writing was use samantha's voice, and specifically how she was addressing others (as bunny vs their real name) throughout the second part. i found it super interesting because it represented her headspace in connection to the girls at the time and how deep she had fallen down the rabbit hole (pun intended XD). i thought that was done so well and really enhanced the depiction of cults and fit in well with her interesting yet gorgeous writing style!this book is definitely not for everyone, but if youre into dark academia, cults, and books like the secret history but with more of a feminine twist, check bunny out! 🐇
3605062216	*Rated 3.5 stars!I’m just gonna go ahead and join the chorus of ”what the fuck?!”Ohhhh what to think about this one. It proved to be a quick read, it’s descent into apparent madness and the spiralling of cultish behaviour providing a claustrophobic and creepy atmosphere perfect for dark academia. BUT...sadly I needed more explanation. I can get on board with weird - and trust me, this book TESTS that claim. But whatever supernatural oddities were happening in this book had zero rhyme or reason to them, making it seem like a book just testing how weird we can push it rather than rooting it within believable logic/reasoning, as I would prefer. But hey, it was wild and fun to read.
6268469198	🐇 ༉ ₊˚⊹ lowk would be down to do something like this on Sunday if anyone wants to join.
4319839142	mean girls on drugs
6910883406	4.5 starsWEEEIIIIRRRDDDD!!!!I’ve realized that I’m kinda into weird and unhinged books like this. Now, I can’t wait to find another one!I loved it, I loved all the weirdos in this book. I loved how I had no idea where the author was taking me until the very end.I love books that spark multiple interpretations. I had my own take on this one, but I couldn’t resist searching Reddit to see what others thought. That experience made me love this book even more.What I liked most is that I enjoyed both my own interpretation and those of my fellow readers. But even if you read it simply as a weird and gory magical surrealism book, it would still be great.Oh, and let’s not forget the last sentence of this book, absolute chef’s kiss! 😙👌✨
6357162317	I'm honestly not sure if I should give this a 5 star or a 2 star, which I think means it's a 4 :D
6933538390	What did I just read?
5861420455	What the hell did I just read?! 😅😶🐇Bunny gives off dark academia, sorority house, vibes.. whilst also being dark with some nasty, gory, moments. Think if a story like The Secret History started descending into a trippy horror experience. Don’t expect this story to make 100% sense throughout, it’s a mindfuck, but in a deliciously tempting way - you will want to read on! I can definitely see this being made into an artsy-type horror movie by A24, Mia Goth would be perfect in this! Samantha Heather Mackey is taking a, very selective, writing course at Warren University. She is inexplicably drawn to her repellant fiction-writing classmates. A clique of unbearably-twee rich girls who call each other ”bunny”.Soon, Samantha finds herself accepted by this group of Bunnies and she is about to fall down a rabbit hole, one much darker than she ever could have imagined…3.25 Stars
3776155101	We Call Them Bunnies...No spoilers. 4 1/2 stars. Caroline (Cupcake), Kira (Creepy Doll), Eleanor (Dutchess), and Victoria (Vignette). We call them Bunnies...And..They call themselves Bunnies: Oh Bunny, I've missed you so... what did you do last night, Bunny?... I love you, Bunny... you get the idea...They are a cult of four women attending Warren University, and they've taken a sudden interest in a lonely coed named Samantha Heather Mackey AKA: Smackey...After being ignored and humiliated by the Bunnies all semester, Samantha opens her locker one day and finds...... an invitation from the Bunnies to attend one of their Smut Salons... Written on an origami-folded swan, hand-decorated with hearts, cupcakes, and Bunny cooings...Out of curiosity and a longing to belong to this exclusive clique, Samantha decides to accept their invitation against her best friend Ava's advice...Once there...Samantha is initiated with a vile green drink and is instructed to tell the Bunnies every erotic thing, past and present, about herself... don't leave anything out...... and once she's good and drunk and all of her private inner tea is spilt... and the hour is very late... they tell Samantha: Go out and bring us a bunny...Samantha passes out and later wakes to find herself amidst dripping axes, screaming hybrid men, brain-spattered walls, and bloody Bunnies...Although this was a very good story, I would caution that it is more of a chick-flick kind of novel. I don't believe it would appeal to very many men.As for the horror factor... well, it was horror but of a different kind. I will say that I believe it will resonate with many women in that Janis Ian AT SEVENTEEN kind of way, and that's where the real horror is to be found and expounded upon.A hint at lesbianism is alluded to but not directly spelled out, as are many other layers to this multi-faceted story.The visuals that the prose evokes are stunning and, at times, hard-hitting... like revisiting a memory best forgotten.
4089906411	this book is so me vibes cuz I'm also a feminist that has psychosis
5126353671	Dziwna przyciągająca….UWIELBIAM JĄ.
5258575754	kwiecień 2023: What the actual fuck…grudzień 2023: myślałam, że jednak zrozumiem, ale nie rozumiem, a mój mózg zmienił się w papkę
3582770534	uhm…so…. 😹😹 wasn't that weird— overall: 4.5 —*All of my reviews are as spoiler-free as possible unless stated otherwise*what do I even say??No, I'm kidding. I know what to say.Someone said that if you hate this book, you're gonna hate it. But if you're into it, you're gonna love it. And I 100% agree. If you're not into the plot and the humor doesn't sell from the beginning, you're gonna have to power through a lot. But if your humor is the surreal, witty, observational, and/or dark kinds (like mine) I think you're gonna like this.There are too many “what the hell is happening” to scenes and I couldn't help think what the point of all this was... But I just could not stop reading.Taking the plot out of context, it sounds like a cliche clique story. And honestly, it kind of is. But the way that the "horror" elements were brought into play gave it a unique voice and made a plot that I didn't think I would enjoy make me stop listening to the audiobook just to pick up the ebook because the audiobook just wasn't going fast enough. “I hope you find your book, Samantha. Maybe it will find you. Sometimes, you know, that happens.” It ends on a hopeful note if you were wondering and this is easily a book that I see people wanting to get back to again and again. It's weird... but it's the fun weird. Ya feel me? “We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.” I'm not the biggest fan of the writing style just because there were times when the conversations weren't written in the traditional way so it made me skip over them sometimes. But something was done right because it kept me energized to keep reading. With that said, I'd recommend not reading the audiobook in this very rare case and stick to an ebook or physical copy.It's fast-paced and a lot of things went down, exactly my type.Even though this is labeled as horror (and trust me, I see why) and I wasn't scared or anything, I have just accepted that perhaps I don't scare easily when it comes to books. Definitely creepy and weird , I think this is what is called body gore? body horror? something like that. But if you're intimidated... you should be. Kidding! The cult girls were the scariest part for me to be honest and probably (view spoiler)[my best friend turning into a swan and getting chopped into pieces (hide spoiler)]There were really strong elements of friendship that I enjoyed immensely. I don't know if I can say that I like how everything ended just because I was expecting more but it wasn't bad. This genre also just might not be the kind of books that I enjoy the utmost but it's been a splendid time.That... organism... you know, Max? Yeah. My favourite character. Just what he meant to Samantha, his role in the plot, the reflection of his character, what his character meant in general... ohmygod??? The character are well-written in general and as a character driven person, that did a lot for my enjoyment.It's HELLA funny. As if I haven't already said that.High on my recommended list if you are looking for something in the dark/horror genre that is not too heavy but is for sure on the creepy side. “Behold the lavish tent under which the overeducated mingle, well versed in every art but the one of conversation.” tw// animal killings, body horror
