2187016161	A Baha'i Religious TextI have had a long curiosity about the Baha'i Faith and its teachings of the universal nature of religion, the unity of human beings, and the imperative of tolerating and respecting beliefs different from one's own. I have always been intrigued by how these teachings of universalism and the essential unity of all religions can fit within the confines of an individual, independent religion, the Baha'i Faith, with its own teachings and texts. Thus, I was pleased to have the opportunity to read this short book "The Hidden Words of Bahaullah" composed by the founder of the Baha'i Faith, Baha'u'llah (1817 -- 1892) while in prison. The book was written in part in Arabic and in part in Persian and was translated by Baha'u'llah's disciple, Shogi Effendi. This book was my first experience with Baha'i scripture."The Hidden Words of Baha'u'llah" consists of about 153 short paragraphs in two parts. It is cast in the form of short revelations to Bahaullah each of which is prefaced by a short exhortation such as "To the Son of Man" characterizing the person or persons to whom the revelation is addressed. There is a brief introductory paragraph to the collection, indicating that the aim of the text is to distill, in short form, teachings that are universal to the spiritual life. This goal of the collection is reflected in some of the comments on this site. These teachings have, and were intended to have, many parallels in the teachings of the other great world religions.The teachings speak of the need for a pure heart, of the need of detachment from everyday life, and of the importance of not envying, critcizing or condemning others. I was struck by the other-worldliness of many of the teachings, as they exhort the follower to turn away from materialism and desire and turn one's attention and heart to the divine. To me, some of the teachings seem directed to mankind, while others, if I am not mistaken, appear primarily directed towards Baha'u'llah himself. In this latter regard, there are several of the teachings which speak of the value of imprisonment, suffering and martyrdom as they advance the cause of God. These teachings seem to be directed to the founder of the faith or to those in danger of persecution on account of their beliefs. While most of the short sayings are readily intelligible to readers of many backgrounds, some sections, particularly near the end of the book, allude to figures that have some specific meaning for the Baha'i faith.This book is known within the Baha'i community but will appeal to those who have an interest in exploring a variety of spiritual traditions. I am in this latter group. It is an inspiring text. The work here is presented without an introduction, notes, or commentary. Thus, I was unable to learn the place of this specific text within the Baha'i teachings as a whole. An introduction to the book with an overview of the Baha'i Faith and of how this book fits within it would have been invaluable. Also, notes in the way of a commentary on the organization and substance of the text would have been helpful. There is always a great deal more to understanding a short spiritual work than reading the words of the text. Context and discussion would be useful.This is an important religious text, and it is good to have it widely accessible. It will appeal to those readers interested in the Baha'i Faith, to those interested in comparative religion, and to those interested in spiritual growth.Robin Friedman
7344089255	This book was written by Baháʼu'lláh (the founder of the Baháʼí Faith). The style and wording very much reminded me of Gibran, Hafez, Khayyam, Rumi and Tagore. It is a book that I will read again; flipping through to find random inspirational sayings. Really am starting to look for answers...we all have to find a way to light the path forward.
426068602	If I could only read one book for the rest of my life, this would be it. It claims to be the essence of all Divinely revealed truth "clothed in the garment of brevity." Whether you believe that or not, you will find comfort, insight and guidance that rises above the level of intellect, theology and dogma to speak directly to your soul. It is the modern equivalent of the Psalms, Proverbs and the Beatitudes rolled into one. Meditating on it will make you feel better, and help you become a better person. What more could you want from a book with only a few thousand words?
71859019	Wonderful, inspiring book by the Founder of the Baha'i Faith; divine Scripture. It is above rating.
2619205291	This is a beautiful edition of one of the most accessible and rewarding of Baha'i writings. The illustrations by Corinne Randall are a perfect complement to the scripture, and reading this work - either straight through, or in short passages over time - is a great way to meditate on how to be a good person, and how we should direct our relationships with one another and with God. Whether or not one is an adherent to the Baha'i faith, all can find wisdom in Bahá'u'lláh's writings.
395339033	The Hidden Words consists of short utterances written by Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith. I guess this is not the place to even begin to analyze the text. I can only describe the experience by using adjectives such as sublime, majestic, resplendent, exalted and so on.
62592201	This small book was one of the two works of actual Baha'i scripture, set down by the founder of the Baha'i Faith, Baha'u'llah, which showed me a brief, if profound, sample of the spirit and wisdom this Faith is founded on. This book as well at "Gleanings From the Writings of Baha'u'llah" gave me an accurate overview of the spiritual writings. If you want to investigate truth for yourself,(a fundamental Baha'i principle), look at the scriptures of a religion to find out what the founder was about, not just what the followers are saying. Then ask your questions with an open, searching heart, with a clear vision. To learn about Christianity look to Christ; Islam, Muhammad; Buddhism, the Buddha; the Baha'i Faith, Baha'u'llah.Just a quick note that I've registered this book at BookCrossing.com, so that I can keep up on where it goes, who reads it, and what they thought of it. Please visit www.BookCrossing.com/223-7330498 to make a quick journal entry, then pass the book along to someone else who will appreciate it. We can all track this book's journey and the lives it touches forever more!
805972254	I have listed Hidden Words as 'to read' even though I've read it so many times I've lost count. The simple truth is that no matter how many times we read these truths we always learn something new. The Hidden Words is an essential part of my growth as a human being and as a Baha'i.
3986197	The Essence of the Divine Decrees Since the beginning.
266984711	Meet your Lord, and see what he has to say in thse revelatory words of wisdom. You cannot help but be uplifted, soothed and felt secure in its exposition.
1024764860	Beautiful. Everything that comes from the pen of Baha'u'llah is beautiful.
2038853704	inspiring, uplifting, powerful, suitable for daily reading
2223649216	Mystical Writings exploring the relationship between God and man, Baha'u'llah Himself states that it is the inner essence of what was revealed to the Prophets of old and clothed in the garment of brevity. Composed as He walked along the banks of the Tigris River in Bagdad it is a great source of inspiration for meditation on man's struggle to follow a spiritual path inthis worldly realm.
3241536405	Loved this book. Baha'u'llah tells us in short writings how we should live our lives. "My first counsel is this: Possess a pure kindly and radiant heart..." "The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice, turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me,..." I am sorry I finished it but will always refer to it for my life.
3866964581	This collection of spiritual aphorisms often makes use of beautiful metaphorical imagery to convey its divine message of unity & humility. An enjoyable and inspirational read. I'll be checking out more from Bahá'u'lláh and the Báb in the future.
1720008250	A collection of aphorisms by the Persian religious leader Baha'u'llah. Many of them are quite lovely and resonate very well with the teachings of Jesus; others are more obscure and mysterious in their import.
3862414772	These are truly "gem-like utterances" contained in the cloak of brevity and point to a spiritual path for the world to tread
3901276545	Best book to start nurturing your spirit daily
1630564893	Touching and beautiful.
7413268346	“Hearken to the delightsome words of My honeyed tongue, and quaff the stream of mystic holiness from My sugar-shedding lips. Sow the seeds of My divine wisdom in the pure soil of thy heart, and water them with the water of certitude, that the hyacinths of My knowledge and wisdom may spring up fresh and green in the sacred city of thy heart.”
7160113569	Hermosa inspiración. Recomendado para quienes tengan dudas sobre como hacer de su espiritualidad algo más significativo, más allá de los dogmas y mandamientos que aprendió a lo largo de la vida. La excelencia esta en la capacidad de prestar atención a los consejos de las manifestaciones y vivir en armonía con lo mejor que Dios espera para cada uno
7413211844	This was not entirely what I expected. I was looking for an overview of the tenets of the faith but this wasn’t it.Still some good quotes, though there are also a lot either weird or incomprehensible.
4924805100	Obviously very beautiful writing, though it would take closer study to understand each word. I love the idea of the bite sized approach. It’s very consumable, and the messages that I DID take from it are universal.
4902221309	A very special spiritual book. If I could own only one spiritual book this would be it. BTW, I'm an ex-Bahai.
4800372443	Eternal Wisdom made crisp and clear!
3424949272	It was interesting to say the least.
7979740368	Lyrical and beautifully written.
2768872857	The religious text of the Baha'i faith. It was ok. It wasn't great. Very typical religious moral rules: don't get fixed on material things, pray to the god, don't point out others' imperfections.
5075318858	As my friend Anis said, "a spirituality shot" for whenever you need one.
1753073664	Not a fan. It just doesn't have much to offer me. The vision of God here is very anthropomorphic and Abrahamic in the way he speaks about himself, demanding love and worship, issuing pompous commands etc and claiming to be distinct and apart from the universe. It doesnt have the passion and love of Sufi poetry, nor the high intellectual mysticism of the Upanishads. It reads to me like a bunch of bland Unitarian aphorisms. There are a few good lines here and there, but mostly its just highly dualistic and authoritarian. Not impressed, I was hoping for more from the Bahais.
