4844605911	My god did this draaaaaaaaaaag. I wanted to like this SO bad. It had the dark academia vibes I crave but the story was so boring. Cool idea, poor execution
4869206255	honestly, i loved this. an old, historic NYC museum. a scholar dedicating his life to uncovering the secrets of renaissance occult and astrology. a summer intern who is no stranger to death. is it fate that brought her to this moment and all the tragedy around it?this has all the components of a deeply captivating and dangerously thrilling story. dark academia will always be my favourite genre and this story is a great example why. the atmosphere just radiates mystery, the subject material is interesting, the story demands answers of the world around it, and the characters suffer from their own hubris. it ticks all the boxes.but the only reason this isnt getting 5 stars is because the story feels restrained, as if its been held back from its full potential. i wanted it to reach just a little bit further, to give just a little bit more, because its honestly so, so close to being a perfect read. and i think the reason the author chose to be reserved in some areas is because she wanted to the reader to make inferences, but i say go for it. dont just hope the reader is going to get to a conclusion because youve hinted at it. make the commitment to showcase everything. i would have enjoyed it so much more if the story had gone all out.but a really promising debut, regardless! i sincerely hope KH continues to write more stories like this because i would read every one. a massive thanks to atria books for the ARC!↠ 4.5 stars
4866410942	My Reviews Can Also Be Found On:The Book Review CrewThis was a slow burn of a novel, but it worked well with this story. This book was an education, and a very interesting one at that. You can certainly tell that the author put a lot of research into writing this story. I don't normally read this type of book, but my goal for 2022 is to step out of my comfort zone, and am I ever glad I did, as I really liked this. It is very dark and has a gothic atmosphere. I liked the take on women's friendships and the fact that Ann is just coming into her own in New York City. All the characters are well developed, but Ann really shone in my eyes. And of course, the setting was a character too. The writing style will keep you turning the pages. It was so beautiful, lyrical, and intelligent. The mystery of the whodunnit almost feels secondary to the characters' relationships, especially Ann and Rachel's, and it still caught me by surprise. I especially enjoyed the tarot card storyline and found it to be completely unique and so very interesting. If you enjoy books with a dark academia theme, literary suspense with gothic vibes, murder, and a mystical feel, you will find plenty to like about this one.Many thanks to NetGalley, Simon & Schuster Canada, Atria Books, and Katy Hays for the giving of the ARC.#NetGalley
5079318563	if the characters were 50% more gay and the plot was 1000% more interesting this would’ve been a really good book
4740879094	what does this girl have against walla walla washington
5133139206	the problem with setting a book in one of the coolest places in the world is that real life is going to be better than the story.and the problem with the word "cloisters" is that i hate it.it's worse than moist.i didn't hate this book, on the other hand, but i would 200% have rather just gone to the museum, and 100% have rather read about the museum itself, than whatever confusing hijinks and love triangle bullsh*ttery happened here.i'm filing this with The Woman in the Library as part of a burgeoning subgenre i call Actual Places Are More Interesting Than The Stuff You Made Up, Even Though You Had The Power Of Imagination On Your Side.rolls off the tongue.bottom line: meh!2.5----------------tbr reviewcommitting a huge act of bravery (reading this even though it contains one of the worst sounding words in the english language)(thanks to the publisher for the copy)
5058414433	I feel like I read a completely different book than a lot of the other reviewers. I usually enjoy dark academia but my god, this book was SO slow. Almost nothing happens until 3/4 of the way through and you already know who is behind everything because there are only three characters. The story follows Ann who is in New York for her summer internship at the Met when she is told that her internship no longer exists because the curator she was supposed to be under has left the country. Patrick and Rachel, curator and researchers in the Cloister, swoop in and offer her a position there. She dives headlong into a search for a mysterious tarot deck when suddenly someone turns up dead. Is it related to the tarot cards? Is it something more? Ann is determined to find out the truth.Ann is absolutely, mind numbingly boring. She retains no personality whatsoever other than to be a willing sponge for Rachel and Patrick and Leo. The story also doesn’t kick off until deep in the book and even then it’s not all that interesting. I really couldn’t wait for this one to be over, it was clearly not for me.
4993895222	Free will or fate? What if your whole life has already been decided for you? What about choice and chance? What omens hover over The Cloisters in New York City one summer? Are the characters futures inescapable? Ann Stillwell wants more than anything to escape Whitman, her college but most of all her home in Walla Walla, WA, as grief over the death of her father is hanging over her like a dark cloud. She heads to NYC to work as an intern at the Metropolitan Museum of Art but she’s disappointed to discover there is now no place for her. However, Patrick Roland offers her work at The Cloisters in Fort Tryon Park which specialises in medieval art. Is this fate or chance? She’s to work alongside Rachel Mondray who studies the history of the Tarot. What will the Tarot suggest about the future, which way will the Wheel of Fortune spin? Who is Fortuna here? What will the oracles predict? This is debut? Seriously? Oh my, there’s some amazing talent in these pages with such an assured touch it feels like a seasoned writer. It’s a beautifully written slow burner which utilises multiple senses and I find it magnetic and hypnotic reading. The atmosphere at The Cloisters is dazzling, mesmerising, almost intoxicating and overwhelming. The buildings and gardens being Medieval in style lend themselves to the Gothic vibes in the storytelling especially via the exhibition that Rachel and Ann have to curate on divination. This leads to some incredible discoveries and subsequent secrecy. The writing is infused with oddities and warnings, there’s some risk taking, as well as possession and control which leads to a feeling of suffocation, then distrust which mulches into fear. What is real and what is imagined is so intriguing and compelling. It’s shadowy at times with truths glimpsed but looming overall is ambition and lure and lustre of the Tarot. The characterisation is excellent with some being conundrums. Is clever Ann as lacking in confidence as she seems? Is it a case of the depth of still waters? Is bold Rachel firmly in the centre of the Wheel of Fortune as Fortuna? What about Patrick? What’s his game and what about Leo in the magical medieval garden with all those weird and wonderful plants, what lies in his heart? Is he also playing games? What all this amounts to is a very intense tale with the promise or otherwise of the Tarot maybe/maybe not guiding all. This novel captivates me (you can probably tell!) as it has everything I love blended in a novel from the historical background to a suspenseful mystery steeped in tension with dark Gothic vibes and hallelujah, a really good ending! It’s incredibly well researched and the author should be proud of what she has produced. It’s a big winner for me and one I highly recommend. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Random House UK/Transworld for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.
4949945823	The Cloisters is one of those books that falls in the "cool idea, poor execution" category. Ultimately, for me, the main plot points make no sense. Why is Rachel universally loved yet has many shady things/illegal activities associated with her that are openly known? Why are we supposed to be invested in tarot cards especially since it seems like the idea is that some of the characters believe they can tell the future while others see it as a research topic? Ann also leans heavily into being a Mary Sue, which definitely distracts from the story. She's a down on her luck character, grew up with working-class parents who has never left her tiny hometown, yet fluently speaks 7 languages and is immediately recognized as something special by all of the main characters in the book. There are some lovely descriptions in the book, and it is hitting on the dark academic trend that's so popular right now. If you want to read some nice descriptions and aren't too particular about plot points making sense, the book is fine for that.Thanks, NetGalley for the ARC of the book.
5236143578	You can’t publish an academic paper using secondary notes of a dead man that were found in the trash without referencing the original sources (that you don’t know). I wanted to like this book so bad. But I couldn’t. This was a marketing FAIL. It’s being sold as a dark academia / fantasy / genre bending / high stakes novel and it was none of the above. The pacing was horrid. NOTHING happened for almost the first two-thirds of the book. The event that happens at that point should have been the kick off point of the book. The characters were horrible. And I don’t just mean they were horrible people (they were); but they were poorly written and constructed. They were inconsistent and all over the place. Ann was the worst of all. She was meant to be so smart but she was stupid af. She was inconsistent in her internal monologues. She judged the exact same actions differently in other people for no apparent reason but yet could do no wrong herself. She kept telling us how New York City changed her but we saw none of that. As far as I can tell she was insufferable before she got there. The idea of fate / choice in the story was bonkers. If you didn’t tell me this was meant to be fantastical I wouldn’t have noticed. It was a poor excuse for Ann to take no responsibility for anything in her life and blame “fate.” Tarot cards has such a big role in the story (apparently) but were really poorly done. I didn’t realize Ann believed in it until she told me. She went from being like they have to be kidding me to living her life by the cards so quickly I didn’t even notice. The twists were obvious. Even the last one that I think was meant to be shocking.So much of what happened in this “academic setting” seemed ridiculous. I wanted a dark fantastical story and got a drawn out, insufferable, mess. SPOILERS BELOW:You’re telling me that this woman hit her father with a car, ran back once she noticed, held him, he told her to run and not ruin her life over it (in a full on conversation?!?) and she did(!!!), without once stopping to think maybe she should call an ambulance?? Then this same woman by the end of the story convinces herself that we don’t have any free will and it was all fate and therefore not even a little bit her fault? Because she would have taken a different road if she’d known?! After she judges Rachel for deluding herself with the same logic?? (Before murdering her in the same way she killed her parents.) I can’t with this book. The ending is what made this one star for me. Also it was super obvious she had something to do with her dad’s death because the way it kept being described as her “running away from her past.” Yeah, apparently a literal hit and run. Across the county. Leo wanted to still see her after she reported him to the police for theft and framed him for murder?? What?!No security in storage apparently. And no one noticed a secondary green house.
4763361967	As long as I’ve had a Goodreads account, I’ve been keeping track of books with similarities to my long-standing favourite novel, Donna Tartt’s The Secret History. I have a shelf for them, called secret-history-esque. Nowadays, however, these books have a more widely recognised appellation – ‘dark academia’ – and there’s a steady supply of novels seemingly created specifically to fit its parameters.The Cloisters is one such book. This may seem a bit unfair, but I truly don’t mean it as a criticism when I say it could have been written to order for this trend. It has the scholarly setting: The Cloisters, a museum of medieval art and architecture in New York City. The outsider protagonist – Ann, a naive but driven graduate with a love of ancient languages (thanks to her autodidact father) – whose wealthy, well-educated new colleagues seem to offer a ticket to a world of learning, society and glamour beyond her wildest dreams. The uneven, arguably toxic friendship between Ann and the charismatic Rachel. There are esoteric themes and motifs: fate, tarot cards, botanical drugs. It even has the portentous ‘if only I’d known then what I know now...’ prologue beloved of the genre. Finally, of course, there’s a mysterious death or two.Because I seek out this type of story, I’ve read books exactly like this before. While the tarot angle is interesting, The Cloisters doesn’t really do much that feels new. But I’ve written before about how much I enjoy this plot structure as long as it hits all the right notes, and the familiar formula has yet to lose its lustre for me. The Cloisters is executed perfectly: a heady book to get lost in, a perfect summer novel. The atmosphere of the setting, with its verdant gardens and myriad hidden corners, is undeniably intoxicating.With a tangled web of relationships at its heart, this book reminded me of ‘coming of age in the big city’ narratives like Sweetbitter as well as its more obvious kin in the ‘dark academia’ niche (especially this year’s Stargazer). I’m glad I read it in August, the perfect month for revelling in such an unabashedly indulgent tale.I received an advance review copy of The Cloisters from the publisher through Edelweiss.TinyLetter | Linktree
5089297273	2.75⭐Say you're baking bread. You can precisely weigh and measure all the ingredients, proof the dough identically as every other time you've baked it, and use the same tray and oven and baking time. You can keep all the variables under your control the same as always. And yet. Sometimes, you end up with the perfect focaccia. Sometimes, it's a flat, dense, disaster. The Cloisters sits somewhere in between those extremes.Many of the right ingredients were there, they just didn't come together right. The theme of fate was explored heavy-handedly, often to the point of irritation.The setting was amazing and the atmospheric world Hays brings to life for the reader is darkly fascinating. I just wish it had lived up to its potential.
6334793694	3.5/5 ⭐This would be a perfect example of a something-and-a-half star rating because, to me, it was more than a 3, not a full 4 either but right in-between. Even so, I've decided to award it the upper rating because I did enjoy it. Maybe it was because of the gloomy, rainy day outside (or maybe not who knows) but this was nonetheless a ✨vibe✨.Did this drag? Yes, a little bit and I couldn't really see a finality to the whole plot, but it wasn't entirely pointless. I mean, it's a fairly short book and there are other factors that elevate the overall anatomy of the plot, in my opinion.The atmosphere is just so good. Think of a cosy, dark-academia style of gothic, think of Katherine de Medici types of poisons, think of early Renaissance tapestries, think of early days astrology, think of Medieval witchcraft and bring them all into today's New York where art and history museums are a whole aesthetic at this point. Yes, I did enjoy this a lot and I got to be around talks about tarot cards, astrology, mythology and old, long-dead languages for almost 400 pages. As for the thriller part - it felt like that was one part that was still loading. Even if it had thriller elements, I can't really call this a thriller. To me, it felt like a cosy dark academia novel with elements of history, thriller, linguistics, art and maybe even a little bit of magical realism. It was, overall, a good novel. And that cover is gorgeous, it begs for you to just pick it up and read it on a lazy, rainy day!
5070517305	It has been ten years since I first visited The Cloisters and it is a treasured memory. The gardens feel secluded and evoke feelings of serenity and timelessness. Inside are gorgeous mementos of an iconic period in history. Even the teenagers I was chaperoning that day were visibly calmed in those green spaces. This debut features a favorite landmark and gives it a dark underbelly. When Ann goes to work, there are undercurrents of betrayal and the potential for danger. Katy Hays weaves a creative tale that ends in unexpected ways. Extra points for the twists we find in the last 25%. That being said, I am not a believer in tarot cards and found their constant presence to be a bit tiresome. I don't believe any of the characters really believed in them either. They could have just as well been reading their horoscope or rolling dice. The plot also seemed to take quite some time to get going -- so 3.5 stars rounded up for establishing a strong sense of place. Thank you to Atria Books and Edelweiss+ for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.
5075110753	I am really in the minority here. I found nothing Gothic, dark academia or atmospheric in this book at all. And I've spent a lot of time at the Cloisters! And know a lot about Tarot so I thought I was perfect audience. Alas. For those looking for dark academia or the Ninth House, look elsewhere. This is more like if Joe Goldberg was split into four characters hanging out at the Cloisters. Lies, spying, murdery vibes, inappropriate relationships. I'm also not entirely sure who was actually invested in the Tarot and why were they really? Besides Patrick was anyone actually all that obsessed? Meh. The book was chaotic. Tarot and occult seemed very important to the plot but it was woven in so haphazardly it could've literally been anything else. I still dont understand Ann as a character (and the deal with her dad). There were moments of what felt like a bare bones DaVinci code but even that didn't go anywhere. It boils down to academia being hard to make a name for yourself, it being very male dominated and I guess sociopaths finding their way to each other in a very non entertaining way. Books like this needs more depth, more history, more mystery. There's nothing supernatural at play here either. I was so excited to read this book and I saw someone mentioned that those who liked The Lost Apothecary may enjoy this (I am not one of those ppl so that may explain this). Clearly a lot of research went into this, hence the 2 stars and it's not a sluggish read so the pacing is good. It just failed to live up to the premise for me.
6225624671	First up, can we just take a moment to appreciate how incredibly beautiful the cover is…and furthermore, a moment to appreciate this is Katy’s debut novel!! An exceptional talent. I hope she writes many more books to come. This book had me from the prologue. It was beyond intriguing; I was kicking my feet for what was yet to come 😝‘If death was in the cards, would you want to know?’🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Ann was accepted to the Summer Associates Program at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. However, upon her arrival in NY she was bluntly told there was no place for her anymore and was instead assigned to the Cloisters; the Met’s Gothic museum and garden. Patrick needed help with preparing an exhibition on divination. On the techniques and artworks that were used to tell the future. The characters in this story were FANTASTIC; some of the best characterisation I have come across. It wasn’t jarring at all, everything flowed from Katy’s hand so smoothly. And to make things even better, Ann was my kind of girl - ‘The books took up more space than my clothes. They always had.’ Not only was the characterisation brilliant but the description to dialogue ratio was absolutely perfect 👌🏽 And saying that, the descriptions were incredible: ‘The offices of The Cloisters were a labyrinth of stone passageways and Gothic doors, darkly lit by wall scones that were placed a little too far apart, leaving shadowy gaps’ - This book was giving me all the right vibes! Patrick’s character was particularly interesting, even from the first introduction he was giving of Gothic vibes. There was an intensity to him yet, he had a way of making you feel at ease with his politeness. For someone in a position of power, he was genuinely kind. Ann (and myself) fell a little in love with him right away. It was more than a scholarship Ann was after - it was a transformation; a way of becoming someone else. However, as the Morgan Symposium grew closer Patrick’s character began to change. He was difficult to be around and so the two girls - Ann and Rachel decided to take themselves off to Long Lake or as Rachel called it ‘The camp’…indicating she knew more than she was letting on about this weekend get away…I highly enjoyed the intrigue! The weekend kicked off with a helicopter ride, followed by a few hours in a floatplane. And soon, Ann was met with a complex of outbuildings and a boathouse…nothing like the camp she had imagined. However, it was clear that Rachel knew exactly where she was going. Next, they were met with a caretaker! This is the kind of camping I would be up for 😂 but most of all, Ann was grateful for the distance from the city and solitude that came with it. After the girls had made a groundbreaking discovery, Ann was tempted to forget The Cloisters and walk away. However, at this stage she realised something even more overwhelming…it wasn’t her choice to make. She enter was entering a dangerous game of toxic friendships, unstable truths and even deadly cocktails prepared from the gardens. In its wake, Ann found herself adrift. She wanted to stop. Rewind. Because all of it was a sudden and unwelcome intrusion- ‘the contemporary world puncturing the peace of The Cloisters’. We are left wondering where the pursuit of power will take her…Ann must decide if the tarot cards can not only teach her about the past, but also about her future…This book was EXACTLY the Gothic mystery I was hoping it would be 🤭 and honesty one of the BEST books I have read in quite some time!! Highly recommend, my friends ♥️
5088094178	Alright. Honesty is the best policy, right? Here I go....the cover of this book is gorgeous. I love that it takes place in the art world. That's all the positive I have. For the first 180 pages nothing happens. Seriously. It's boring AF. I have a deep love of the art world. I worked in a museum and I have multiple art degrees. The characters are flat pancakes. None are likable, which I realize now having read it, is part of the whole plot. The twist in the end should have blown my mind. It would have had I cared at all what happened to anyone in this book. When the twist(s) do come they aren't fully explained. There are so many questions. The characters motives are completely unclear. I had such high hopes for this story. Unfortunately, for this reader it just didn't deliver.
5138551294	5 tarot-ific starsMedieval history secrets, ancient tarot decks, a dark academia museum setting, and a close-knit group of coworkers who blur the lines between personal and professional... I'd love to live in this version of higher academia, please, potentiality for murder be damned. Use of history: ★★★★★Setting: ★★★★Pacing: ★★★★★Enjoyment: ★★★★★"Death always came for me in August."Ann Sitwell, a recent college graduate from Nowhere Important in small town Washington, has arrived in New York City. She's an art history graduate with a passion for esoteric Renaissance and late Medieval pieces with a bend toward the arcane—her niche topic isn't necessarily the most relevant, her internship opportunities slim. So when she arrives at the Metropolitan Museum of Art to find out that they don't want her anymore, she's paralyzed. But then, a fortuitous chance meeting with the enigmatic head curator at The Cloisters, Patrick, changes Ann's trajectory forever.The Cloisters, a gothic museum settled right in the heart of Manhattan and incongruously secluded, is a museum unlike any Ann has ever laid eyes on. Its history seeps from the walls, and priceless collections, artifacts, and archives all tailored to Ann's areas of interest seem like an unbelievable dream. There's Patrick, the established curator and head of The Cloisters, who has amassed a small and cloistered—pun so very intended—group around him for his current passion project in the occult. He's searching for hints of the earliest tarot decks and their potential links between the Medieval and Renaissance periods. He's searching, unbelievably, for a hint of true magic amongst the earliest of divination decks.There is Leo, the gardener for the magical copse of deadly plants in the center of The Cloisters' museum structure. Surrounded by plants used historically in poisons, medicines, and aids to the divine, Leo's orbit as the non-academic in this seat of hushed knowledge is an itch that Ann just might find herself scratching.And then there is Rachel, Patrick's other assistant. Beautiful, ethereal, unbelievably wealthy and connected Rachel. Rachel is also interested in this same field of study and welcomes Ann into the fold like a sorority sister inducting a new member, teaching her all of the tricks and ways of life in this small, set apart academic pocket. When academic stakes meet deadly games, Ann just might find that she's found more than she bargained for... Welcome to The Cloisters. I'll keep my thoughts short and sweet on this one, because it's all high praise. This honey-slow, lingering, and deathly divine story was one that I could not stop reading. The Cloisters is a novel that breathes, sharing its secrets and obsessive drive with you. Ann's journey through grief, her enmeshing into this closed system of claustrophobic academics, and the ultimate unraveling of it all was such a treat to read. Obvious comparisons have been made between this novel and other dark academia titans like The Secret History. I agree with those comparisons—if you like the standard favorites in the genre, then this novel is likely going to work for you. But I'd like to expand that filter a bit. If you're interested in magic and its weavings throughout our actual history, if you're interested in tarot, if you're interested in the study of the arcane in any way... this novel will likely work for you also.Looking forward to more novels from this author! Blog | Instagram | Libro.fm Audiobooks
4817264533	WOW THIS COVER IS EVERYTHING! Thank you to Katy Hays and Atria Books for my stunning copy! The Cloisters is about Ann, a woman who goes to New York to work at MOMA. She gets assigned to The Cloisters, which is a gothic museum and garden full of medieval art. She is tasked with working with researchers, and starts to learn about fortune telling as they uncover a mysterious deck of cards. What seems like an innocent piece of history quickly becomes a dangerous game of power, seduction, and ambition.Thoughts: This is not my normal genre, and is billed as being Ninth House meets The Secret History. It was for sure a dark academic book full of mystery and magical realism. It reminded me of Mexican Gothic and was about female friendship and a dark and disturbing history. This was NOT a thriller, and was rather slow at times. There were some good points made about women in academia and the choices we make. 4-stars
5084965895	There was so much I liked about this book, the Cloisters setting being paramount. Katy Hays did a fantastic job capturing the feel of the place, which oozes atmosphere from the moment one enters the property, and I felt her descriptions of NYC and other environs were accurate. I loved the historical references and fell under a spell whenever certain objects (a ring, a painting, tarot cards) were described. What didn't work so well for me were the characters. They were mostly unlikable, and I think I found them to be this way because I didn't understand the motives behind their actions. Our MC, Ann, is a small-town girl and easily manipulated. For me, this manipulation overshadowed her potential, and by the time she woke up to her surroundings, it was too late for me as a reader. I'm interested to see what MS. Hays writes next and will definitely give it a go.
6262336497	3.5Bardzo wolno rozkręcająca się książka z gatunku bardziej spokojniejszych, ale jak już zaczęło się coś dziać to wow. Powiedziałabym, że ta książka to połączenie sztuki, wielkiego miasta, wróżbiarstwa, historii z kryminałem
4754185934	More of a workplace drama than it was a mystical jaunt.Let me be very clear, this book had everything going for it. Interesting premise, dope cover, the promise of magic. And yet, when push came to shove, anything interesting about it was moved aside like the author was told dark academia was hot. So the premise, the magic, even the McGuffin(which the book is about/isn't about) gets left behind in the first 50 pages so that we can have a book that drags its feet telling you it's actually a murder mystery.That's right folks, this book isn't about magic tarot cards, it's not about a particularly mystic museum. No. It's about a murder, and the truly bonkers motive for it.Did I want to like this book? Yeah hell yeah. Did I like this book? No, absolutely not. Honestly, it doesn't deserve 2 stars, but man that cover rules.
5031617137	Nah.What it comes down to is that I found this book extremely unpleasant. And also dull. And reading it made me feel like I would rather be banging my head against something very solid. This was made even more frustrating by glimmers of stuff I probably would have found very intriguing in another author's hands, or in another type of story altogether.The Cloisters is about a woman whose name I have long forgotten who is heading to her first post-graduate job, supposedly at the Met in NYC but when she gets there, they inform her there are no spots. By COINCIDENCE a man named Patrick (that one stuck I guess?) who works in the Cloisters (an actual offshoot of the Met) and offers her a job there instead. At the Cloisters, she gets caught up in a toxic mean girl relationship with her beautiful and charming coworker, a coworker who is sleeping with the boss and the gardener, who the MC also starts sleeping with. Then Patrick ends up dead. Also, there are some weird tarot card readings in here that barely signify anything, but apparently were enough to get the publishers to market this as fantasy???Anyway, it's just about toxic, boring people who do terrible things, my least favorite genre of story. I don't really recommend this one, but I guess if you like toxic people doing terrible (and boring) things you might enjoy it!
4821090243	Insufferable pretentious sewage masquerading as a book. Pointless, boring and repetitive rambling drivel that my brain may never recover from.
5163576379	The best thing about this book is its cover. And that’s why I picked it, without reading the synopsis or the reviews.After a few chapters in I decided to read the blurb and some reviews.I liked the concept and the setting.I wasn’t a fan of the writing, which to me was a bit pretentious.The main character, who can speak 7 languages and read Latin, Ancient Greek and a 13th century Ligurian dialect from Genoa, is dull, and most of the characters are unlikeable.The development of the story is very slow and quite boring and led to a very disappointing conclusion.There was nothing thrilling or remarkable here. I also did not get the gothic atmosphere.Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more if the book was written in third person.This one was clearly not for me.There are some wonderful 5 stars reviews, so don’t mind my opinion.It’s like I read a different book.At least I tried it.This is a debut by Katy Hayes and I wish her success.Hardcover (Atria Books): 312 pagesEbook: 365 pages (default) 99k words Hours to read: an average of 7 to 8 hours
5112459724	This was disappointing. Maybe when I hear the words Dark Academia, it sets my expectations sky high. Which doesn’t help. I liked the location but there wasn’t enough atmosphere and interesting history stuff for me here. I found the tarot cards frankly boring. At one point, she says that the history of tarot cards is often left out by historians… I think there’s a reason for that!!! I liked the ending tho, good twist. 👍
6843138902	Katy Hays’s The Cloisters immerses readers in a world of gothic allure, dark academia, and the tantalizing mystery of tarot. Set in a medieval art museum in New York City, the novel explores ambition, obsession, and the tension between fate and self-determination. With evocative descriptions and rich atmospheric detail, the story promises profound themes through a dark lens.While The Cloisters shines in its setting, mood, and integration of tarot’s historical and mystical dimensions, it falters in character development and plot execution. Ann's journey raises intriguing questions about fate and choice, but the resolution feels hollow, with "fate" as an excuse for her questionable actions. Hays makes The Cloisters museum’s gothic architecture and serene gardens come alive, creating a setting that feels almost more of a character than the people within it. This atmospheric brilliance is the novel’s standout feature. Themes of ambition and obsession place it firmly within the dark academia genre, while the gothic undertones amplify its intrigue and intensity.However, Ann herself is a weak point. Her motivations lack clarity, and her character remains frustratingly shallow. Supporting characters fare no better, functioning as archetypes rather than individuals, leaving the relationships, meant to drive the novel, flat and unconvincing. The exploration of tarot as a tool to probe fate and free will is compelling, enriched by Hays’s evident knowledge, but predictable plot twists and an underwhelming conclusion undermine this potential. By relying on "fate" to absolve Ann of accountability, the story avoids the deeper exploration of agency it initially promises.The Cloisters excels in atmosphere and thematic ambition but stumbles in delivering a cohesive, character-driven narrative. Its setting and premise make it a captivating read for fans of gothic fiction and dark academia, but its lack of emotional depth and unsatisfying resolution leave it lingering more for its mood than its story.
5169776505	This book dragged like a bucket full of concrete attached to your leg.
4763530814	review to come!
5874679519	Really enjoyed the setting and the atmosphere in this, and it took some turns I wasn't expecting. In many ways, a story of a twisted friendship, but also ambition. Quite liked it!
4891846536	Yes, yes and yes! Brilliant ending! Great levels of historical education, mystery, murder, lying, elitism of academia, questions about fate/destiny and so much more! If you are looking for a happy go lucky book this is not it. Although it’s also not grim dark or gory; it’s just a bit nasty how everyone treats everyone else and there is certainly no loyalty, trust or genuine relationship (of any kind) building. I believe The Cloisters would make a great movie! The LocationMy favourite part of all is that I got to learn about a wicked cool place in NYC that I am stoked to visit when I one day end up there. The Cloisters sound absolutely divine! Historical artifacts, poisonous plants, old old books, and more! I'm tickled to add this location to my top 5 must see places when I visit NYC for the first time. It's exactly the kind of setting that makes you think of intrigue, murder, occultism, and (the overall theme of this book) fate. I can only imagine how cool it is to sit next to a belladonna plant and know that you could consume a couple berries and be in dire peril. Yes I know I'm a bit twisted. (lol)As an aside: I live in Canada, far from NYC, haven't studied Renaissance history, and never been that far East in USA; so not knowing about this place is not unusual. I bet most people who aren't in this realm of academia, obsessed with the time period, or aren't visitors or residents of NYC know about The Cloisters. The Tarot DeckI now, desperately, want someone to make a replica of the 1500s tarot deck described here. I really adored the notes at the back of the book describing and explaining each of the cards according to our leading gal, Ann. It was interesting to see Katy Hays link-up, creating takes or spins, the major arcana to other Greek and Roman references, many we all know so well. This unique deck sounds divine. And yes I checked, it's fictional. As someone who has studied a bit of Tarot, owns way too many decks, most of which have never even been used (I just love the artwork) I can definitely say that the appeal of the mysticism and occult surrounding the use of the Tarot (as more than a card game) is definitely intriguing. Although I can't help but remind myself that it was created and set-up by humans, so it can only really tell us as much as we already know about ourselves and possible universal outcomes. Thus, (perhaps) limiting it's potential as a true fortune teller. Either way, it's gorgeous and I love the symbolism inherent in so many different interpretations. Research & AcademiaThere is no doubt in my mind The Cloisters was well researched and that the author was well educated (she’s got a fancy PhD). I really appreciated that Hays showed the nepotism, favouritism, and elitism of the academia world. Having a best friend who got her PhD I have seen it (almost) first hand and can guarantee you it is nasty and definitely not about who is the best, smartest, or most talented in their field. Instead it’s about who plays the social suck-up game smartest, and I hate that. It was refreshing to see someone from that realm of academia put it on paper and admit to the cliques that happen and how competency is not the only consideration when it comes to placing people on projects, at locations, or into teaching positions. CharactersI adored and appreciated the development and progression of our leading gal Ann. She goes from a bit naïve and very quiet (but self-aware) to really taking control. A girl outside her element in the bustling city of New York suddenly finds out, not only how hard it is to live in NYC, but also how much stronger she is than she thought. By the books end we've seen Ann's personality completely change (whether for good or bad I'll leave up to you to decide after you read it!). The introspects that are given into why we cling to certain friendships or people are certainly interesting. The idea of proximity being the first, can't be friends with someone if you don't know them. And the second being that circumstances and isolation can make certain friendships or romances seem natural and perfect from where someone stands; but from the outside it can be clear that someone is taking advantage of someone else. It can be so hard to see the webs woven when you're stuck in the middle. I loved how Hays shows this and really brings Ann and the reader around to a viewpoint that starts to change so many preconceived notions from earlier in the story. OverallThis was a really fun book for me. It was dark at times, had just enough romance to be acceptable (I was so glad this wasn't overdone), and really emphasized the complexity of 'who gets credit when' paradigm that exists in academia. I'm betting, after reading this, the next time you read about someone discovering something historically significant you'll wonder whose shoulders they were standing on! You might also wonder who in your life has caught you in their scheming web. Although I would remind readers that most of the time people are better than what is seen here. Ultimately, there is a long list of topics that could be discussed out of this book, but I believe the one Hays most wants us to consider is this: Do destiny and fate exist? And if they do are they set in stone, or can they be changed? I'd highly recommend letting Hays take you on a rollicking adventure (if nothing else) that will have you flipping the pages quickly in anticipation of learning all the secrets entwined within The Cloisters. Please note: I received an eARC of this book from the publisher via NetGalley. This is an honest and unbiased review.
4993382073	I am only giving this two stars because I actually read the entire book and didn't skim my way through the end. The ending was absolutely ridiculous and I seriously need to stop reading thrillers. I thought I was enjoying the art museum/history aspect, which is my background, but it got to be meandering and it felt like whatever interesting story line there was, was abandoned in an attempt to throw ALL THE TWISTS at the reader. All of the characters were absolutely awful, which I guess is the requirement for something to be considered a 'thriller' nowadays. You are not allowed to have a decent person or a kind character that you, the reader, would actually want to spend any time with. So as someone who typically cares about the characters above all other reading pathways, I'm asking myself why do I keep reading thrillers when, at the least the newest ones that I have read this year from a variety of authors, have absolutely abhorrent people with no redeeming values. I genuinely don't understand why readers would enjoy spending 300+ pages with terrible people and no character development.*****The more I think about this book the more angry I get, and I'm dropping the rating to 1 star******
4733570671	3.5 stars rounded up to 4 on goodreads! Read With Jenna picked a good November book with THE CLOISTERS! the setting of this one was a total vibe and a complete character in itself—dark academia meets NYC meets summer meets magic, tarot cards and tragedy 👀🔮🏛🫣it was a very slow burn and i wish i knew that going in—what is teased in the synopsis happens almost more than halfway in. but the ending of this one was wild—the last 30 pages or so had a few twists that left me 😦🫢along with the setting this book also had such interesting and unreliable narrators. it was so hard to know what was the truth or who you could trust… i was so impressed with the character (and setting!!!) development knowing this was the author’s debut. very unique story and definitely worth the read! such a good fall book too. this was a BOTM add on that you should consider snagging in future months! thank you to my besties at Atria for the #gifted copy in exchange for an honest review 🖤
5164677923	4.5 stars A rich and decadently indulgent tale of obsession, murder and the occult that’s literally dripping with the most gorgeously moody (and gothic imagery) that I genuinely couldn’t get enough of! I know I’ve said that a lot recently, but I’ve been on a bit of an academic mystery/thriller kick lately so quite a few of my recent reads have a gothic-y atmospheric tone that I’m completely vibing with. And Katy Hays’ The Cloisters—which is centred around a summer assistant’s deadly game of ambition in the halls (and gardens) of the New York’s titular gothic museum —has probably been my favourites so far. It follows Ann Stilwell, who arrives in New York ready to start her summer internship with The Metropolitan Museum of Art only to find herself reassigned to The Cloisters famous for its medieval and Renaissance collections.It’s here that she begins her journey into the world of academia—thanks to the museum’s curator, Patrick who believes Ann’s skills will be beneficial in helping with his research into the history of Tarot cards and fortune telling. Having left her past behind and eager to please her new colleagues, Ann is willing to indulge some of Patrick’s more unusual (and outlandish) theories. But when she discovers a lost deck of 15th-c tarot cards, Ann suddenly finds herself at the centre of a dangerous game of obsession, toxic friendships and the ruthless pursuit of power that could destroy all that she’s worked hard (and risked everything) for. I genuinely loved the dark and sinisterly atmospheric vibes that Katy Hays manages to create, with some incredibly decadent descriptions that had me wanting to visit New York ASAP. I was fascinated by Ann’s version of the city but, it was her heavily romanticised view of The Cloisters (and it’s vast collections) that really drew me in. It felt almost like a love letter to the world of art history and academia, (which makes sense given Hays’ background in Art History) and I think it’s because of this that it felt more tangible for me. Likewise, many of the characters we meet are also connected to the museum (as employees and scholars) and I loved navigating the subtleties in their roles and how each intersects in different ways. I also enjoyed delving into some of the more mundane, day-to-day tasks through the lens of someone just as new and naive (Ann) to it’s inner workings as us readers. Ann, our protagonist and sole POV throughout was such a complex character that I felt definitely kept her cards close to her chest, and as such lent and air of mystery that kept me intrigued throughout the entire book. Her emotional journey and grief over the death of her father is what seems to spur her decision to leave the small college town she grew up in and I found her need to reinvent herself (into someone more confident and easy going) quite relatable, despite my reservations on her reliability as a narrator. Rachel (who acts as a sort of mentor and aspirational figure for Ann) is the well connected, wealthy and charismatic ‘IT’ girl who’s attention in Ann and their subsequent work together on an upcoming exhibition involving Tarot really spurs the suspenseful and obsessively plot twisty narrative. I also really enjoyed Ann’s intense flirtation/romance with The Cloisters’ gardener Leo—whose rebellious, devil may care attitude was incredibly compelling, as was his mysterious history with Patrick and Rachel. But despite all the mysterious,bad boy bravado he was probably to most up front (and honest) character of them all. The Pacing was a little slower than anticipated but it did help with setting up the necessary info surrounding the history of tarot and it’s importance within the plot—which I enjoyed though I wish the supernatural elements played a larger role. Overall, an evocative and hypnotically immersive debut that’s perfect for fans of academia based psychological thrillers or The Secret History by Donna Tartt.Also, a huge thank you to Izzie Ghaffari at Transworld/ Bantam Press for the incredible proof
5125056115	The Cloisters was a book that I thought sounded fantastic when I read the blurb. Even though I love reading crime and mystery books set in academia, this book just wasn't as wonderful as I expected. The story and the characters really didn't captivate me, but I kept on reading to find out how it would all end and it did provide an interesting twist. The major problem I had with the story was that it was pretty obvious, there weren't enough twists. And, I just found Ann, the main character to be a pretty boring character. Isn't it so typical? I lost count of how many books I've read when the main character is the bland one with so many colourful characters around him or her. And, as the story progresses she starts to open up. Sometimes it works great, but not when it comes to this book. No, I just didn't like Ann that much to be honest. The Cloister was a so-so book in my opinion.
5003612386	Review writing slump continues so here is a summary of my thoughts. Probably 3.5 stars so my review is round up.I enjoyed this book.I was intrigued by the premise, it nailed the atmosphere. It had exactly the right lulling, luring, intoxicating pull that GOOD dark academia novels are supposed to have.It was interesting that it was based in a museum and dealt with tarot cards. I guess I thought it might have some fantasy elements because of the tarot, but it was firmly realistic fiction, so that was a bit of a let down for me but not holding it against the book itself because I had some false expectations of it. But those who like tarot would probably enjoy this novel.I do however think the plot and conflict/climax was pretty predictable, so the ending kind of fell flat. I also think the book was a bit too short for its own good, and that it would have been better with MORE, more time, slower pacing, etc, to better lure readers in. It seems like the protagonist isn’t into things, and then a flip is switched and suddenly she is.And per dark academia, it was very, very homoerotic, but it was not sapphic or lgbt. Though I think events in the novel could have been avoided if they had just kissed and become a couple.But all in all I would recommend this!
5254049799	I liked the premise and the writing, but the one thing that kept me from loving the story was what I would describe as "it didn't get there". It is sort of hard for me to explain what I mean with this. I felt like the author put in a whole lot of bits and pieces (and scenes) that I thought "wow, how interesting. Can't wait to find out more". But I thought, for the most part, these things fizzled. They didn't quite go to a place where my initial excitement was justified.Still, I would be interested in reading something else from this author.3.5 stars
4904878699	The Cloisters is a strong debut from Katy Hays, who I hope continues to write more intriguing, atmospheric novels! Hays gives her readers a rich sensory experience by setting the story in The Cloisters, the second location of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Located in the Northern tip of Manhattan, this real-life venue offers "a combination of such stunning examples of original medieval European architecture, exquisite gardens, and marvelous works of art" found nowhere else in the United States, according to the Met's website. A field-day for the imagination, I was content to spend time with the main character, Ann Stilwell, a small-town college grad from Eastern Washington, on her summer internship within the medieval walls and humid gardens. I was engrossed in the mysteries and academic rivalries unfolding, as well as the research on a deck of unusual Italian tarot cards that promised to be life-changing (life-altering?).In this heavily atmospheric story, a slow-burn mystery takes place between three academics and a "feral", artistic and entrepreneurial gardener who is easy-on-the-eyes. The complexities in the relationships between Ann, Rachel, Patrick and Leo are part of what fuels the plot. Within the story are themes of privilege and how much it affords you, as well as the idea of fate verses free will. I readily devoured this piece of eye-candy for the mind. The only miss for me was the ending, which others have said they loved. For me, it did not sit quite right, as it felt a bit implausible, and I'd be happy to go into more detail with others who read and want to discuss! All in all, I recommend this book as a delightful escape into the world of art and intrigue. Thank you to Goodreads and Atria Books for the ARC of this gem. The Cloisters hits shelves on November 1, 2022.
4908815666	Ann Stilwell arrives in New York City for the summer feeling out-of-place and dated in the ever-moving metropolis. She finds herself assigned to The Cloisters, a gothic museum and garden renowned for its collection of medieval and Renaissance art. Despite its residence in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the select few who work there mix rarely outside of their own and work upon their projects in secretive peace. Ann finds a home within them and will do anything to protect her new identity and friendship group. Anything at all.This was a darkly beautiful Gothic Read. Ann was at its centre and I felt a kinship with her awkward and clumsy self. This aided in my immersion and in understanding how she so quickly got caught up in the sinister events occurring. Many were revealed throughout the course of this novel, and many occurred right under Ann and the reader's noses without our awareness, but the ending was one I did not see coming most of all! This thrilled and excited me throughout and, despite it all, made me long for my own Cloisters experience.
5124519057	Merp merp merp. Another "eh, it was okay" book. This one was so bloody long-winded. And I kept imagining Amber Heard's face every time Rachel spoke. So there's that. 2.5 stars. Today, I'm rounding up. But honestly, tomorrow I might round down.Today, I have rounded down.
5078483959	Very interesting premise but the story was executed so poorly. I’m a really huge fan of “no plot, just vibes” books but, in this case, the plot is truly non-existent. Moreover, I didn’t like any of the characters, especially the main character. She was so naive to the point of being so annoying.
4834385345	This one felt like too little and too much at the same time; not enough things were happening, yet it felt like I had been reading each paragraph for about a month.
4985891183	Beautifully written and rich in atmosphere, I wish this debut had a storyline going for it because absolutely nothing happened.
5474138075	Me apetecía MUCHO traeros la reseña de este libro; un dark academia con muchísima psicología de personajes, un montón de arte del medievo y renacimiento y más en específico del arte relacionado con el ocultismo de esos años….AAY.En seguida que leí la sinopsis SUPE que este libro era para mi. La ambientación oscura pero con ese toque antiguo y misterioso, los personajes que guardan secretos y que están ávidos por el conocimiento y por asegurarse una plaza dentro del mundo académico, relaciones con ese toque tóxico y difícil, una protagonista con muchas capas y un misterio que resolver. Sin duda el mayor punto de esta novela ha sido la pluma tan envolvente de la autora, el nivel de documentación y la ambientación en los Claustros de Nueva York. Os juro que me sentía ahí todo el ato y me entraron unas ganas terribles de recorrer los pasillos que Ann describía en cada página. He de decir que no ha sido el mejor Dark Academia que he leído, pero aún así os lo recomiendo CON CRECES si sois fans del subgénero (y si no). Además con cada página todo se iba tornando más retorcido y ciertas revelaciones te dejan…wow, con la sangre fría. ADEMÁS ESE FINAL???? DIOOOOOS ME DEJÓI HELADA.Mi personaje favorito sin duda ha sido Rachel. Dentro de que todos son moralmente MUY grises ella fue mi favorita y de la que más ganas tenía de leer todo el tiempo.
4986013742	the vibes are immaculate with this one. this one is for the tarot girls, the artsy girls, the hot girls. The world and the characters are just so well built out and its an insanely amazing debut.
4993906618	“Wir verließen die Bibliothek und suchten uns zwei Plätze in dem Café, das sich in einer Ecke des Trie-Kreuzgangs zwischen die Säulen schmiegte, wo es blühende Wildblumen im Überfluss gab. Bienen summten zwischen ihnen herum wie Betrunkene, stießen fast zusammen.Der Nachmittag war so warm und so sehr von den sanften Naturgeräuschen erfüllt, dass ich mir einen Augenblick lang einbildete, die arme Verwandte in einem Edith-Wharton-Roman zu sein, der man zum ersten Mal ein Leben im Luxus zugänglich gemacht hatte und die sich bereits vor dem Tag fürchtete, an dem dieser Luxus wieder vergehen würde. Gleichzeitig war ich jedoch wild entschlossen, ihn bis ins Kleinste auszukosten, solange ich das konnte.”Die Atmosphäre von The Cloisters, seine Gärten, die Hitze des Sommers und das Leben in New York werden wunderschön beschrieben.Aber leider gab es viel zu viele Beschreibungen (von The Cloisters, Kunstgegenständen, Interieurs von Wohnungen und Häusern), zu viele Gedanken und Spekulationen und dafür ist einfach so wenig passiert… Dadurch hat sich das ganze relativ zäh gelesen.Das Ende fand ich wiederum sehr gut - weil stimmig und doch auch überraschend. Da mir der Schreibstil im großen und ganzen gut gefallen hat und auch die Idee der Geschichte, wurde für mein Empfinden viel Potenzial verschenkt...
5127859962	A very okay book. Hays writes lucidly, and she clearly knows art history and academia and eastern Washington. But the plot—from the inciting incident onward—never quite escapes the sense that it’s contrived.Thanks to the publisher for providing a copy for review.
5093437207	Quite possibly the most boring book I’ve ever read
5334435317	A riesgo de quedar como alguien que vive en un frasco, debo admitir que no tenía ni idea de la existencia de los Claustros de Nueva York. Me pareció un escenario excelente para una novela de esta índole. Cabe destacar que la misma se vende como "gótica", y de eso tiene poco. La atmósfera sí acompaña, pero la trama sigue el hilo de una obra de Dark Academia/misterio. Al principio, daba la impresión de tener conexión con cuestiones de ocultismo, tarot y brujería. Nada más lejos de la realidad. El tarot, que en la sinopsis (bastante engañosa, debo admitir) da la sensación de ser un elemento clave, es algo pasajero. El final es bastante predecible, no hay mucho lugar a la imaginación. A pesar de todo, el libro me entretuvo, tiene un ambiente agradable de suspenso, y unas descripciones buenísimas.
4823470291	This book had a couple of interesting themes, The Cloisters setting in NYC and tarot cards. Combined, I was hoping for a dark, slightly sinister tale of mystery and mayhem and while the story was certainly a good debut with a few twists and turns, I was wanting a little more depth. Recommended though to suspense/mystery readers. Kudos to the front book designer - beautiful. Thank you to Goodreads and Atria for the ARC.
5985557782	me gustó mucho cómo habla del tarot, tremendo plot twist al final, pero el libro de a ratos se me hizo denso.
5515183015	Full rtcLet's see what so the hype is about with this one!
4999035148	Thank you, Atria Books, for the gifted copy of The Cloisters {partner}Genre: MysteryTrope: Dark AcademiaFormat: 📖Pub Date: 11.1.2022Star Rating: ☆☆☆"It was then I realized how thin the light is that separates what we know as fate and what we think of as choice - just an interpretation. Nothing more." Y'all, I realllllly wanted to love The Cloisters, I can't begin to tell you how excited I was when this dropped on my front step, but it just didn't do anything for me. The first 30% was interesting; it had me questioning the characters' motives and interests in the world of divination.Here are a few of the things that didn't work for me: There were several occasions when I felt like I was reading straight from a textbook - the writing style needed to fit what I'd become accustomed to from the author, but it didn't. The book was all over the place. Yes, the different storylines within the novel came together in the end, making a little more sense (not much), but aspects of the story were unnecessary and caused the book to drag. Because of this, I kept finding reasons to be distracted from the book and uninterested in resuming reading. 🗽 Dark Academia, New York City setting🤩 Gorgeous cover 🔁 Repetitive🤷🏽‍♀️ Almost had a YA vibe?✨ Debut novel👎🏼 Unlikable charactersPlease take my review with a grain of salt as I am only one review (and reviews for this book have been all over the place), and I certainly don't want to prevent anyone from picking this one up to read. The Cloisters is the author's debut novel, and I am interested in what she writes next because she has a lot of potential. ______Follow me on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/thebookend....Follow my blog: https://thebookenddiner.com/Follow me on Goodreads: https://www.goodreads.com/thebookendd...Follow me on StoryGraph: https://app.thestorygraph.com/profile...
5080790722	As soon as I learned this book took place in the actual METCloisters in NYC, I had to give it a read! I'm a terrible artistbut I have a deep love and appreciation of Art, especiallyart from the renaissance period.The less you know going into it the better so I will be verybrief and vague. To sum this one up, this story isRenaissance art meets the Occult. Ann is from Washingtonstate and just arrived in NYC. She begins working at thegothic art museum The Cloisters where she meets hercoworkers. Soon a dangerous game of power, seduction,and ambition turns deadly.The Cloisters vibe is very similar to dark academia butinstead of taking place in a school, it's set in a museum.The story is a spellbinding literary fiction work that'scentered around an arcane mystery. I enjoyed this one aswell as all of the characters. I loved the atmosphericsetting which makes The Cloisters a perfect cool-weatherread. This book is a bit slower paced which I don't mind atall. Either way, The Cloisters was a solid 4-star read andI'm very impressed that this is Katy Hays's debut novel. Isee wonderful things for her in the future!I listened to the audiobook version of The Cloisters. It isread by the fantastic Emily Tremaine who I'm familiar withher narrating from The Family Plot and The Candy House.would highly recommend the audiobook version!The Cloisters was published on November 1, so it isavailable now! A massive thanks to Libro FM, Simon Audio,and Atria Books for the gifted audiobook!
4993313979	Fresh from Walla Walla, Wash., recent grad Ann Stillwell considers her summer job at The Cloisters — achieved in a moment of serendipity — and living in New York City the chance of a lifetime, a chance to leave her previous pedestrian life behind. This summer — and her relationship with The Cloisters’ curator, gardener and, especially, fellow summer employee, the beautiful and wealthy Rachel Mondray — will change Ann’s life forever. And perhaps the city itself plays a part:New York had shown me how hungry I was. Hungry for joy and risk, hungry to admit, aloud to everyone around me, my ambitions. Hungry to realize them. The blurb compares The Cloisters to a cross between The Secret History and Ninth House. Having read neither, I’ll judge Katy Hays’ debut novel on its own merits. The novel drags a bit in the first half, but stay with it: The second half is a rollercoaster ride of emotions and suspense. Ann discovers who she really is, who she subconsciously was all the time. And the ending? A shocking surprise.In the interest of full disclosure, I received this book from NetGalley and Atria Books in exchange for an honest review.
4732738710	Tl;dr: Merely dull for a while, and then absurd, and never what it promised. ***The Cloisters has an intriguing premise, an academic thriller with shades of the magical and occult. But after a slow but promising start, introducing protagonist Ann and a gorgeously sensual atmosphere in the gardens and halls of the Cloisters, the plot takes a long time to get to anything interesting...and then goes a little off the rails.The writing feels like the debut it is, with stilted dialogue, insipid prose other than the evocative descriptions of the setting, and awkward action & motivations behind the frankly bland plot. The tarot aspect isn't as magical or intriguing as I expected from the way the book was marketed, and the interpersonal machinations all feel so...petty, until suddenly there's some death and dramatics. By that time it was just all so unbelievable, and Ann so passively pathetic a protagonist, that I didn't really care who got murdered or who got arrested for it. The final revelations were just a melodramatic cherry on top. Definitely did not work for me, but fans of The Lost Apothecary might enjoy it more.Thanks Atria Books for the advance review copy!
4740893097	though the cloisters was not necessarily bad, i found it to be lacking in any sort of depth. the writing was good and intriguing, but it all felt very surface level and a bit more like a check list of "dark academia" necessities that the author was checking off. i had such a difficult time sympathizing with our main character, ann. i understand the whole "naive small town girl in the big city trope" (though i think it's one that's over used) but my gosh, it wasn't that she was just naive and lost in the city, she lacked complete and total common sense. there were so many red flags with EVERYTHING and everyone around the cloisters and she completely turned a blind eye, and after a while, it just got annoying. most of the big reveals and twists didn't really shock me, but there was one at the very end of the book that did take me by surprise, which i appreciated. but overall, the cloisters fell flat
4890237625	3 stars--I liked the book. Frustrating, because with a little more polish, this could have been a 5-star book. I liked the setting and scholarly themes, and the tarot cards were a nice change over the usual ancient manuscript often used as a plot device. But for a book so concerned with scholarship, this was shallow--shallow characters and plot, and overall just something I've read before.
5083979556	So far, the only thing sinister about this novel is the price tag.I returned it. Life is too short to waste time on a story trying hard to be like another book I didn't enjoy much to begin with.
4942037795	1.5, generously rounded upwill return to this when i can formulate my thoughts better but god DAMN this was a disappointment all around :/alright i'm back! i was looking forward to this for MONTHS and i'm so maddd because it wasn't good, like at all. let's just go bullet point by bullet point here.- the writing. this is definitely an adult novel, written in the style of your classic adult thriller with a slight dark academia twist to it, but the writing constantly wavers between feeling almost like YA and being Definitely Adult. you get some really beautiful and immersive descriptions at times and then you're immediately pulled out of the scene by lines like "[my] breasts never arrived, my face never caught up with my nose...the only thing i had to my credit were a pair of large, wide-set eyes, but they were not enough to make up for all the other plainness i enjoyed." (this was 18 pages into the novel. nothing turns me off from a book like a woman protagonist lamenting her breasts within the first chapter.) and let me add that this is written by a woman! why does it read like a horny middle-aged man wrote it?? why are we treated to a description of her hair magically becoming "slightly romantic in its chaos" once she puts on a high-end dress? it just felt completely unnecessary and i can't be super forgiving of it considering it's piled onto a wavering, inconsistent writing style and stilted dialogue. - the relationships. i was expecting there would be some romance in it, so i was prepared for this, but alas it ended up even worse than i expected. our main character ann is immediately attracted to her boss patrick, but really only because of her daddy issues because halfway through she "looked up at him and felt, for a moment, very young. as if i were looking up at my father as he leaned over my translation." this comparison to her father is mentioned multiple times without any further elaboration or development of an actual connection between them. along with this brief attraction to her boss, she quickly becomes swept up in a romance with the rakish, law-breaking gardener leo who is a perfect caricature of the weirdly intense, obsessive bad boy who doesn't have a personality beyond being vaguely distrustful of everyone except ann and trying to have sex with her in public. he juggles all the classic bad boy but secretly sensitive jobs: gardener/punk musician/drug dealer/playwright. he makes snarky quips. he kisses her tenderly. he is completely forgettable.really the deepest and most fleshed out relationship in the whole book is between ann and her colleague rachel, who continually profess their love for each other and talk about how they've never felt truly understood by someone before, who MOVE IN TOGETHER within the first half of the book, and yet somehow remain tastefully straight. the levels of repression here are off the charts - ann spends soo much time waxing poetic about how confident and beautiful and intelligent rachel is but never even considers her romantically? okay, sure. because the superior option here is definitely fucking LEO- the character development. i just could not stand the main character! she reminded me very much of the main character in Woman, Eating, another book that was profoundly disappointing to me. both of them lean hard into the "not like other girls" complex that i thought we had left behind in 2012 but apparently haven't. ann has these long internal monologues about how different she is - i mean seriously, "i could already see them fitting into their roles within the group - the smart one, the pretty one, the nervous one. maybe that was why i had never managed to find a wide group of friends: none of the roles fit....new york had taught me that i no longer cared if i fit; i preferred to stand out." maybe the reason you don't have friends is because you're fucking insufferable, ANN. her personality boils down to: insecurity, depression over the tragic loss of her father, general confusion, idealization of her colleagues because they're rich. the whole book is just a repetition of that, and the author never manages to successfully pull off natural character development, resorting instead to having ann talk about it in her monologues (she no longer cares if she fits in, guys). the side characters also feel thin and underdeveloped - i already talked about how much of a caricature leo is, but the rest of them are the same way. patrick is a huge part of the novel's plot but also barely shows up and his motivations aren't really explained. rachel seems like an interesting character until the author (view spoiler)[reveals that she's been a grand mastermind villain all along in the last three pages, and that not only did she kill patrick but also somehow killed her parents like five years ago too? (hide spoiler)] the big twist kills all of that character development and just leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth. - the plot. the pacing was just WEIRD. it was slow and dragging for the first two thirds of the book, when suddenly it jumped forward and dropped four separate twists into the last chapter. it was just too much happening all at once and ruined the effect of the first twist because it got so confusing. plot points seemed to be picked up and dropped again and a lot of it felt straight up not believable. it seemed like the author was trying to make this point about the tarot cards actually being magic but that didn't really resolve in any way. speaking of the tarot cards, for being the main focus of the novel they were just not used well? we got a little bit of history about tarot, which was cool, but the way she covers the symbolism and the readings feels really flat and surface level. she also started having the main character do a reading like right at the end of the chapter multiple times and it was just sooo melodramatic and cliched and kind of cringeworthy in the way it was written. at least she didn't dramatically pull death?? that's the only positive thing i can say about that. i did enjoy the research put into this novel and the historical elements, but i was really disappointed that there wasn't more of it (and that it was all renaissance focused.) from what i'd heard about the book before it was published, i thought it was about a medieval historian - it's not. it's very very renaissance focused and there is not much actual medieval history. if this is a thing you care about you will be disappointed. overall this was just bland, which is utterly infuriating because it's SUCH a cool concept and should be exactly my shit but it WASN'T because the execution was so bad!! it is not full of "razor-sharp insights into power dynamics and class divides" (come on simon and schuster that is a STRETCH), it's overwritten and patronizingly simplistic and just a really really frustrating read. and then to top it all off it's a classic thriller with the dark academia trappings because that's what's trending right now which is just ughhhfinal thoughts: do yourself a favor and don't read this
6927853507	Menudo final, estoy en SHOCK. Me ha resultado una lectura tranquila e interesante al principio pero la originalidad del final me ha atrapado por completo, me encanta que sea tan diferente a otros Dark Academia que he leído 🫶
6167568805	Are vibe de "Istoria secretă": mediu academic, personaje nou-intrate în această zonă, interese ascunse și morți suspecte. Este genul de carte care fie îți place, fie te lasă indiferent, fie nu îți place. Eu credeam că va primi 3⭐, dar spre final m-a convins să îi cresc punctajul datorită răsturnărilor de situație pe care nu le-am prevăzut. Avem un personaj naiv, care fără să vrea ajunge într-un grup de oameni defect care lucrează într-un muzeu. Fiecare are câte ceva de ascuns, însă până la urmă soarta decide.În ciuda titlului, să nu vă așteptați la o avalanșă de magie (deși la finalul cărții este un soi de dicționar care explică termeni din acest domeniu al ghicitului cu ajutorul cărților). Totuși, cărțile de tarot vor spune multe pentru cei care au urechi să audă.
4762216815	I loved this debut! I’m borrowing someone’s format but I can’t remember who’s!!! I think maybe Regina’s!! I’m going to use words that I think of when I think about this bookSlow burn, dark academia, fate, choice, murder, driven, misguided, entitled If you enjoyed the secret garden you will like this
5507892157	In some ways, this was the perfect book. Tarot and Divination, strange things happening, and you don't know who you can trust. And at the heart of the novel, it seeks to ask the question I am always asking. What is the relationship between fate/predestination/prophecy, and free will? Do we think we have free will because we are choosing what has already been fated? Or do we always have a choice and the mechanisms of prophecy simply reflect what is in our hearts? This one has a gothic mysterious air. The characters are not necessarily likeable. One is simply following the danger and mystique of the story. What is exactly going on? Its like a game of the undercurrents. And one is not sure what is already in motion, being put into motion, and how it will all fall out. It was like cat and mouse with free will and fate. And I really enjoy that. It is both fun and thought provoking all in one. 3.5 for the ride. And fulfills a prompt. Actually two. And... It comes off my TBR.
5132123473	So many things made me want to pick up The Cloisters by Katy Hays, the first of which being the gorgeous cover. Combine that with a setting of New York City and a museum along with tarot cards and the overall intrigue of the plot, and I knew it would be good. It was a bit of a slower burn than I was expecting, and I did think it dragged a little bit, but other than that I was really impressed by both the story and the execution, plus the ending is a doozy! I did see one of the major twists coming, but that oddly didn't bother me since I enjoyed the rest of it and the reveal so much. I was surprised that considering there was a guide to reading tarot in the back of the book (so fun) and it is mentioned in the synopsis, that tarot isn't actually discussed all that much in the story. I was hoping for more to come out of that aspect, so I was a little disappointed there.The Cloisters is a debut novel, and I can already tell Hays is going to go places. I loved her storytelling and I felt entirely wrapped up in the story. I also loved the audiobook and would recommend it if you’re like me and prefer them for slower moving storylines. Emily Tremaine is a wonderful narrator and I thought her skills were perfect for this book. The audio just felt really well done in general and was a very enjoyable experience! The Cloisters has a very gothic feel to it and was also very atmospheric which I loved, and I was fascinated by so many aspects of the story. If you’re looking for a ton of action this is not it, but if you enjoy a slow burn and want to give up playing detective to just enjoy a story, I highly recommend The Cloisters.Thank you to the publishers for my complimentary listening and reader copies of this book. All opinions and thoughts are my own.
4804331795	A wonderfully dark novel rich in characterization. After Ann Stillwell graduates from college, she doesn’t waste a minute more in Walla Walla, WA, and heads to New York City’s Metropolitan Museum of Art (Met), where she has secured a summer position as curatorial associate. But there’s a mix up, and Ann ends up at the Cloisters, the Met’s museum and garden devoted to medieval art, located at the remote northern tip of Manhattan. Here she ends up working with Rachel Mondray, who is everything Ann isn’t: Yale educated, Harvard bound, immensely wealthy. Will they be friends, enemies, or frenemies? Friends, it turns out, providing they stick to Rachel’s terms. Under the tutelage of Patrick, the curator-in-charge, they research early Renaissance tarot cards in preparation for an upcoming exhibit. But the cards aren’t just visually beguiling. They are powerful in ways that go well beyond art history, capable of inspiring evil today. Hays does a wonderful job of opening up the lives of both Ann and Rachel, who forge an alliance—like the contestants in a Survivor-like TV show—that will see them safely through the summer. Or will it? Fans of Shapiro’s The Art Forger, Perez-Reverte’s The Flanders Panel and Santlofer’s The Last Mona Lisa will love this book.—Brian KenneyFor more reviews of forthcoming Crime Fiction, subscribe to our weekly newsletter, First Clue: https://www.getrevue.co/profile/First...
5453415617	2⭐️DNF. Lo siento pero menudo aburrimiento.Quise leerlo por todo el tema de las cartas del tarot que me pareció bastante interesante pero es que he llegado a la mitad y no pasa absolutamente NADA. En vez de crear misterio entre todo el tema del tarot, la autora se dedica básicamente a hablar de historia QUE NO ME IMPORTA y que no aporta en absoluto. Los personajes son inaguantables, no se salva ninguno; la protagonista tiene 0 unidades de personalidad; los capítulos son innecesariamente largos; el supuesto interés amoroso no tiene coherencia alguna y se nota demasiado forzado, además de que tienen 0 química; la autora repite 100 veces por lo menos que la prota “odia su ciudad y la quiere dejar atrás”, y repito, ME DA IGUAL TU VIDA, QUIERO SABER SOBRE LAS CARTAS; creo que está considerado como un dark academia y lo siento pero eso sería un insulto a todos los libros buenísimos que hay de ese género. He tardado una semana en leer 100 páginas, así de aburrido es. No voy a perder mi tiempo en libros que me cuentan cosas que no me interesan y no van al puto grano, bye.
5357015700	There’s some lovely writing in this debut novel that nods to Donna Tartt in characterisation and plot aided by an almost irresistible setting. Yet the whole feels a little underdeveloped with the major theme marred by unnecessary subplots and distractions.Despite these disappointments, ‘The Cloisters’ is certainly worth seeking out for its descriptive and atmospheric style and intriguing plot.
7725234144	4.5 stars
5225338787	If I were forgiving, I would say that the characters are deliberately written as clichés and stereotypes in order to reflect the archetypes present on a tarot deck. The college janitor, straight out of Good Will Hunting, who teaches himself from scraps, the bad boy bassist/gardener/playwright, the rich girl with a mysterious past, and the shopkeep who proudly sells artifacts of questionable provenance aren't all flat and generic because the author was lazy: no, far from it. It was a deliberate choice to have characters that feel so unreal, that resemble no one you, I, or the author has ever actually met.If I were even more forgiving, I would say that the descriptions of places represent the way a historian makes guesses about times and countries they have never been to. She vaguely describes Walla Walla as a small backwater town, despite the fact that it's a small city, the largest in the area, by far, and anyone from the area would think of any of the other, much smaller towns that surround it as actual small towns. (It is also described as surrounded by apple orchards, which is a very "it's in Washington description," even though most of the apples grown in WA are along the valleys: Walla Walla is mostly wheat and wineries.) She describes the Bronx as a series of bodegas blasting music and people sitting on brownstone steps playing songs, as if it's the video for "Smooth" by Santana and Rob Thomas. Most of the descriptions are like this: the descriptions of a tourist who did a bit of reading and then moved on. At one point, an entire train to the Bronx empties, leaving only 3 people on the train. Not in the train car, 3 people on the entire train. That doesn't even happen at 4 AM, but this is during the day. It may seem unfair to pick out something so small, but the book is full of small details like this that don't match up with reality or with the characters.This is a book about academics who don't talk like academics getting way too far into tarot cards as if they're opening a mysterious portal to another dimension. It is a truly dumb book. "Oh no! The tarot cards are predicting my future! What is fate and what is choice? It's soooo scary!" Dumb, dumb, dumb. Imagine a Dan Brown book without the adventure, and you've got The Cloisters.
5056919392	Book 69 of 2022: 2.5 Stars Rounded Up"Death always visited me in August."The jury's still out on this one, but for a quick breakdown:The pros: The atmospheric setting, the concept, and the potential for more.The cons: The execution, the pacing, and the delivery/build up of twists. I'll elaborate further once I settle my thoughts. Full RTC.
5580045400	Me gustó este libro, pero se sintió como uno que he leído o visto muchas veces, sabía todo lo que pasaría mucho antes de que ocurriera. Además, el tema del tarot no sentí que lograra volverse tan interesante como prometía la sinopsis.Ann solo quiere salir de su pequeño pueblo, por eso no duda en aceptar una pasantía en el MET. Sin embargo, cuando las cosas no salgan como deberían terminará en Los Claustros, ayudando para una exposición sobre adivinación que llevará a su vida dar un giro completo."Está muerto. Todo. Ese es el verdadero trabajo de un académico: convertirse en nigromante."Al principio lo sentí muy como Rebecca, con esta protagonista joven e inexperta, Ann, que termina de golpe en un mundo para el que parece no dar la talla. Por lo que todo fue sobre sus inseguridades, miedos y la necesidad de agradar al resto y aparentar que pertenece ahí. Honestamente, hasta ahí estaba bien, era un perfil de protagonista conocido para este tipo de historias, por desgracia, no me gustó tanto el arco de Ann. Hubo un cambio en su forma de verse a sí misma y de relacionarse con los demás, en especial para el final, pero no me terminó de hacer sentido.Sé que suena muy tonto decirlo, porque puedo disfrutar un libro predecible por el camino que significa leerlo, sin embargo, aquí supe cada cosa que iba a pasar y no se suponía que lo hiciera. Toda la trama, los giros y las decisiones de los personajes se veían venir, sabía que serían así y conservé un poco de esperanza para el final, pero no, fue tal cual lo esperaba. De nuevo, no me molesta saber qué va pasar en libros que se trata del camino, acá no era así, claramente estaba hecho para resultar sorprendente, solo que no pasó conmigo. Era demasiado parecido a muchas de las otras historias en el género como Una lección de tinta y venganza."Tenía hambre de alegrías y riesgos, hambre por declarar, en voz alta y para quien fuera que estuviera alrededor, todas mis ambiciones. Tenía hambre por alcanzarlas. En lugar de estar llena de miedos, rebosaba de una especie de alegría burbujeante."Rachel, la amiga que Ann se hizo en Los Claustros, era dolorosamente un cliché. Sé que desde los ojos de Ann la veíamos de una forma y la gracia era ir notando ese cambio, pero me pareció tan sencillo y plano como el personaje. Lo mismo con Leo, no había alguna capa en el personaje o algún tipo de profundidad. Además, eran desagradables, personas desagradables así de simple. De Patrick esperé más, lo admito, que fuera un poquitín más inteligente, pero no. Lo que se intuye al inicio de estos personajes, era todo lo que había sobre ellos en el libro. Nada más.Hay mucho sobre arte, Medieval y Renascentista, por ser el tema de la exposición y la especialidad de Ann. En particular, se centró en el tarot, en el poder e influencia de la adivinación en nuestro futuro. Creo que este era el punto distintivo del libro, lo que venía a diferenciarlo de otros similares, pero nunca terminó de funcionarme. Sí, Ann comenzó a sentirse atraída por el tarot e hizo unas leídas, por desgracia jamás sentí que el tema de adivinación tuviera un peso real o que fuera propio del libro. Es difícil de decirlo, porque si bien dedicó varias páginas a hablar del tarot, no fue algo que sintiera en la ambientación del libro, no se sintió atmosférico en ese sentido. La mayor parte del tiempo olvidaba que trataba sobre el tema de la adivinación y para el final cuando jugó un rol importante, solo me produjo indiferencia."Quería saber los detalles. Había aprendido que los detalles le daban algo sólido al suceso, un cuerpo al terror."La ambientación que sí me gustó fue la de Los Claustros, los detalles del lugar, las menciones a la temperatura, la brisa, los olores, todo esto logró que la ambientación física fuera muy buena. No así con otros lugares físicos de NY, pero ese que era el más importante, me gustó mucho. Lo mismo con el tono tenso del inicio, es decir, con estos personajes que parecían ser demasiado buenos para ser cierto (todo desde los ojos de Ann). Siento que la autora transmitió esa capa de misticismo y secretismo en ellos, el problema estuvo en que lo mantuvo demasiado y para cuando mostró la verdad cualquier cosa que esperáramos era más interesante.Creo que este libro me gustó en la teoría, tenía todos los elementos que me encantan, esa tensión producto de los secretos que iba creciendo y personajes que solo mentían. Sin embargo, el darme cuenta de que las cosas que esperaba eran las que pasaban me quitaban ganas de seguir. Y la verdad es que llegué a un punto en el que me desagradaban tanto los personajes que solo quería que acabara. Fue uno de esos libros en los que la protagonista era la única persona con reacciones naturales (solo que muy tonta) y los demás actuaban de manera irracional, pero como si eso fuera lo lógico y la miraban mal por sorprenderse. No sé cómo más decirlo sin spoilers."Somos tanto los maestros de nuestro propio destino como víctimas de las Moiras, las tres diosas hilanderas que tejen nuestros futuros y los cortan para ponerles fin. Y, si bien aún creo que podemos controlar las cosas pequeñas de la vida, esas minúsculas decisiones que conforman el día a día, creo que, quizá, la forma principal de nuestras vidas no la determinamos nosotros. Esa forma le pertenece al destino. Los Claustros vinieron a buscarme y me entregaron mi destino ese verano."Quedé con la sensación de que no pude transmitir bien lo que me pasó con este libro en el sentido de que si me pongo a pensarlo están todos los ingredientes, pero la mezcla no terminó de hacerse. El arco de Ann hubiera resultado muy bueno si también me preocupara por ella, si quisiera que las cosas le salieran bien, y no era así, en vez generar una empatía solo terminó cansando. Ni siquiera el secreto de su pasado logró importarme. Tenía todo para una gran ambientación física, pero faltaba una más mística por el tema que tocaba, que la adivinación estuviera siempre presente en nuestras mentes, que cuando hicieran una lectura lo que veía Ann significara algo, por desgracia, no fue así.Los Claustros es una novela gótica de misterio ambientada en el mundo de los museos y centrada en el tarot y la adivinación. Una novela que siguió todos los topos del género al punto que cada aspecto de ella era algo que se veía venir mucho antes de que ocurriera.
7906515154	Das Buch hatte durchaus spannende Punkte, aber ich hätte mir mehr bzw. etwas anderes davon gewünscht. In meinem Lese-Vlog https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WzZ8O... rede ich ausführlicher darüber.
5332108344	Reading this novel brought back poignant memories of visiting the Cloisters as an undergraduate, in the company of someone I loved very much, and saw the Unicorn tapestries for the first time. That day so long ago came back as I read this novel set at the medieval branch of the Metropolitan Museum. Besides having a perfect setting, Katy Hays’ story featured one of my favorite themes, an intense friendship between a wealthy sophisticate and a working-class girl. Ann Stilwell is from the boondocks. Her hometown, Walla Walla, most likely evokes raised eyebrows and giggles from the cognoscenti, even though it is the home of Whitman College, an excellent liberal arts institution. Her mother and father worked for the college, but not as faculty; she in food service, he in maintenance, but father was an autodidact with a passion for medieval languages, which he passed on to his daughter, who knows not only Latin and Greek and Italian, but Ligurian. The college gave Ann a scholarship to major in art history. Although a Renaissance specialist, most unexpectedly she finds a summer position at the Cloisters, to work alongside the wealthy and sophisticated Rachel Mondray, graduate of Spence and Yale, and destined for graduate school at Harvard. Their boss is the even more sophisticated Patrick, who commutes from his big house up the Hudson in Terrytown. They are working on a project studying early tarot cards, to show the pack was used in fifteenth-century Italy for divination.Rachel takes Ann under her wing and invites her to live with her in her family’s apartment. They also go to visit (by float plane) her family’s estate on a lake upstate, where she Ann discovers that Rachel is an orphan; her mother and father drowned in a sailing mishap from which Rachel was the sole survivor. And Ann starts picking up clues that something dodgy is going on. Rachel introduces her to an antiquities dealer unconcerned about the provenance of the objets d’arte he traffics in. There’s a distinct scent of hot art and cold cash. And Ann also involved in a casual affair with Leo, the museum’s horticulturalist with an uncommon knowledge of medicinal and narcotic effects of medieval herbs.Having had a career in a related field, though literary rather than art history, and done research at the Beinecke and the like, I found the scholarship portrayed both realistically and fascinatingly. But in my other life I was also a sailor, and thought the nautical details in the denouement incredible. To begin with, dingy sailors don’t stow their flotation vests in the boat; they wear them. And there is no way three adults, two of them of mature years, would be likely to out for an evening sail in a Laser, a single-handed racing dingy. I also have a problem with first-person narrator’s keeping secret from the reader a traumatic event from their past and then revealing it at the end. I would have found Ann a more interesting and sympathetic character if we’d known it from the beginning.But though disappointed by the ending, I found The Cloisters the most unputdownable and engaging book I've read in quite awhile.
5923188759	La morte mi ha sempre fatto visita ad agosto, un mese calmo, piacevole, che abbiamo trasformato in qualcosa di febbrile e crudele. Il cambiamento è stato rapido. Come un trucco con le carte. Ho visto che molti lettori lo classificano come thriller, altri come fantasy, ma in realtà io l'avevo trovato in una lista di romanzi con vibes #darkacademia, e a mio avviso ci rientra bene, in quanto l'atmosfera gotica di un museo c'è tutta, come pure l'apprendistato della protagonista, lo studio e l'esaltazione della cultura classica, per non dire dell'arte medievale-rinascimentale, e anche il muoversi nel lato dark di persone e luoghi.La giovane Ann, in fuga da un lutto doloroso e da un college di provincia, arriva, con davvero pochi spiccioli, in quello che risulta essere ancora, ai nostri giorni, il centro culturale del mondo, vale a dire New York, e ci arriva per frequentare un ambitissimo ed esclusivo stage estivo al Metropolitan Museum of Art (e già qui ero semi-conquistata, perché al MET io ci pianterei le tende tutta l'estate, se potessi).Peccato che il suo posto non ci sia più. Tuttavia, guarda cos'è il destino, viene cooptata all'ultimo per lavorare alla sede distaccata di arte medievale, ovvero al Cloisters, da un professore sexy e sinistro che sta preparando una mostra sui tarocchi e il loro uso esoterico nei secoli, assistito da una ricchissima, chiacchierata e conturbante collaboratrice.La tesi della ricerca è che le figure dei tarocchi fossero note sin dal Quattrocento e che già le piccole corti italiane se ne servissero per sondare il futuro, prima ancora della moda successiva in età moderna. Presto, però, lo stage si tramuta in un gioco a quattro, con cigno, brutto anatroccolo e professore, più un giardiniere a scompigliare le carte del mazzo.Tra manufatti che scompaiono e strani accadimenti nelle sale museali, tra arcani maggiori e minori che indicano linee ambigue, l'estate afosa si colora di sorprese, scoperte e morte. E se la nostra vita e anche la nostra morte fossero già state scritte? Se un lancio di dadi o una mano di carte potesse svelare il finale, lo vorreste sapere? La vita può essere così labile, così inquietante? E se ognuno di noi fosse Cesare? In attesa del nostro lancio fortunato, rifiutiamo di vedere cosa ci aspetta alle Idi di marzo.Mi è piaciuto moltissimo, anche se quando i personaggi facevano le stese con i tarocchi ho dovuto fidarmi delle interpretazioni dell'autrice (e alla fine c'è un'utile legenda sulle carte).Lo stile è lento, ricercato, con richiami culturali, ma è un narrare ipnotico che ti prende e ti accompagna descrivendoti posti bellissimi da visitare o rivedere con occhi diversi.Per dire, forse non potrò essere di casa al Cloisters, però mi sono già programmata un giro al Palazzo Schifanoia di Ferrara e un nuovo tour di Mantova.Le donne sono state tessitrici per secoli. E sono state capaci di vedere le trame e fare deduzioni e creare oggetti bellissimi. Tutto quello che facciamo è tessere una vita. Cercare di vedere dove ci portano i diversi fili.
4932223081	The protagonist and narrator of this novel is Ann Stilwell, a Renaissance scholar from a provincial college, who arrives in New York City eager to make her mark as a curatorial associate at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It seems she’s in for a massive disappointment, as the place is no longer available for her. However, she is unexpectedly snapped up by Patrick Roland, the curator of The Cloisters, a museum and garden which incorporates Gothic cloisters dismantled from Europe and rebuilt around herb gardens overlooking the Hudson River. Patrick and his glamorous research assistant Rachel are studying the history of tarot and the use of cards in divination in early Renaissance Italy. It quickly becomes evident that the “research” is not purely academic, but also involves actual dabbling in occultism using antique tarot decks. Ann is quickly drawn into this dark, elite, esoteric world. And like Fox Mulder in X-Files, she might have her own reasons for “wanting to believe”. After a murder at The Cloisters in which she is a potential suspect, Ann must navigate dangerous territory, seeking academic success while trying to save her skin and her reputation.The Cloisters is an atmospheric read and, although some readers have criticized it as rather slow-moving, I actually found its mix of mystery and “occult thriller” quite gripping. Yes, The Secret History does come to mind, but so do, for instance, some of the “supernatural mystery” novels of Arturo Perez-Reverte. There is also a coming-of-age vibe in this story of a withdrawn student from the “backwaters” trying to make it big in the city. One sometimes needs to suspend disbelief – and, ironically, here I’m not referring to the more supernatural aspects of the novel but more to the triangular relationship which develops between Ann, Rachel and Patricki which, for some reason, did not particularly convince me. Yet this is a small quibble, and The Cloisters was a really enjoyable debut.https://endsoftheword.blogspot.com/20...
4822012060	I loved all the dark academia vibes in this book: the shifting allegiances, the insatiable hunger for knowledge and the power that comes with it, and the corruption by knowledge. The Cloisters is the perfect setting for this book and the relationships between the characters were mesmerizing to read. Especially Rachel and Ann, who have an unhealthy and almost co-dependent relationship. Additionally, Leo and Ann’s chemistry is tangible and I enjoyed all their scenes together. All of the characters are different from each other yet they all share the same ambitiousness. At the end of the day, they are all willing to do what it takes to achieve their goals. But complex female relationships always fascinate me so the relationship between Rachel and Ann is what interested me the most. I was curious to see how the pursuit of knowledge and the pressures of academia would influence their relationship. The touches of magic through tarot cards was a great element to this story. And I loved the brooding and dark atmosphere throughout the book. There is a sense of danger throughout and the characters can never fully trust each other. I felt constantly uneasy with what was going to happen next. I thought the ending was fitting and matched the tone of the book perfectly. Overall, this is an electric dark academia read and a fantastic debut.
