2339337828	Plato’s Symposium is one of the most loved classics from the ancient world, a work of consummate beauty as both philosophy and as literature, most appropriate since the topic of this dialogue is the nature of love and includes much philosophizing on beauty. In the spirit of freshness, I will focus on one very important section, where Socrates relates the words of his teacher Diotima on the birth of Love explained in the context of myth:“Following the birth of Aphrodite, the other gods were having a feast, including Resource, the son of Invention. When they’d had dinner, Poverty came to beg, as people do at feasts, and so she was by the gate. Resource was drunk with nectar (this was before wine was discovered), went into the garden of Zeus, and fell into drunken sleep. Poverty formed the plan of relieving her lack of resources by having a child by Resource; she slept with him and became pregnant with Love. So the reason Love became a follower and attendant of Aphrodite is because he was conceived on the day of her birth; also he is naturally a lover of beauty and Aphrodite is beautiful.”Diotima continues but let’s pause here as according to many teachers within the Platonic tradition there are at least two critical points to be made about this passage. The first is how love is conceived in the garden of Zeus, and that’s Zeus as mythical personification of Nous or true intellectual understanding. In other words, for one seeking philosophic wisdom, love is born and exists within the framework of truth and understanding, thus, in order to have a more complete appreciation of the nature of love, one must be committed to understanding the nature of truth. The second point is how within the Platonic tradition, truth is linked with beauty. Two of my own Plato teachers were adamant on this point, citing how modern people who separate beauty from truth can never partake of the wisdom traditions. (Incidentally, these exact two points are made eloquently by Pierre Grimes in this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d1cbh... ).Although I am not a strict Platonist, I tend to agree. When I encounter people who have sharp minds and are keenly analytical but communicate their ideas in snide or sarcastic unbeautiful language or are in any way disingenuous or degrading of others, I find such behavior very much in bad taste. In a very real sense, I feel these individuals have cut themselves off from the world’s wisdom traditions, particularly from the Platonic tradition.I wanted to focus on this one paragraph to convey a sense of the richness of this magnificent Platonic dialogue. One could mine wisdom nuggets from each and every paragraph. And, yes, I get a kick every time I read the speech of Aristophanes featuring those cartwheeling prehumans with four arms and four legs. Also, two fun facts: One: reflecting on Alcibiades, the history of philosophy records another incredibly handsome man with a similar great head of curly hair and full curly beard, a man (fortunately!) with a much stronger character – the Stoic philosopher and Roman Emperor, Marcus Aurelius. Two: Diogenes Laertius reports the Greek philosopher Epicurus also wrote a book with the title Symposium. Unfortunately, this piece of writing is lost to us. Darn!
1008498667	OPRAH: Good evening and welcome to What's the Most Spiritual Book of All Time? For people who missed last week's exciting semi-final round, The Sermon on the Mount beat The Bhagavad Gita 4-1 while Jonathan Livingston Seagull unexpectedly lost 3-2 to outsider The Symposium. Let's all welcome our finalists![Applause. Enter JESUS CHRIST and SOCRATES, both wearing tuxedos. They shake hands. More applause.]OPRAH: And now let me introduce our jury. I'm thrilled to have with us living legend Paul McCartney, world-famous novelist E.L. James, the beautiful and talented Lindsay Lohan, controversial scientist Richard Dawkins and ever-popular hockey mom Sarah Palin![The crowd goes wild, with some people clapping and others booing. It's impossible to make out a word anyone says.]OPRAH: Thank you, thank you, thank you. I'm just going to remind you of the rules before we start. Each member of the jury gives us a short speech, and then we count up the votes to see who our lucky winner is. Over to you, Paul!MCCARTNEY: Thank you, Oprah. Well, I look at our two finalists, and you know what I'm thinking? I'm thinking they won that special place they have in our hearts because they told us about Love. And I remember back in 1966 when John gave that interview where he said - no offense intended - "we're more popular than Jesus". [JESUS holds up a hand to show he's cool.] They gave John a hard time about that, but all he wanted to say was that even though Jesus had shown us the power of Love, maybe, at that exact moment in history, we could do a better job of bringing it to the people and telling them all how amazing Love is. Because it is amazing, isn't it? [He takes out a guitar.]Perhaps some of you remember this song we wrote.There's nothing you can do that can't be doneNothing you can sing that can't be sungNothing you can say but you can learn how to play the gameIt's easyNothing you can make that can't be madeNo one you can save that can't be savedNothing you can do but you can learn how to be you in timeIt's easyAll you need is love--OPRAH: That's wonderful, Paul, but who are you voting for?MCCARTNEY: Oh, er... well, if John were here, I think he'd want me to vote for The Symposium. He was always had a thing for Socrates. George too. Yes, Socrates it is.[Applause. The scoreboard shows 1-0. SOCRATES looks a little embarrassed, while JESUS curiously examines MCCARTNEY's guitar.]OPRAH: That's terrific, Paul, beautiful, beautiful song. Really takes me back. So Socrates is in the lead, but it's early days yet. Your turn, Erika!JAMES: Good evening, and I'm thrilled to be here. Now, I'm sure some of you have read the Fifty Shades books, and I believe a lot of people misunderstand them. It's easy just to think about the sex and the glitz and the limos and the handcuffs and the blindfolds and the whips and the--OPRAH: I'm not quite sure what you're trying to say here, Erika.JAMES: Just let me finish, Oprah. What most people don't realize is that these books aren't about sex, they're about Love. They're a spiritual journey, where Ana has to help Christian - have you ever wondered why he's called Christian? - find himself and discover the difference between empty eroticism and the redeeming power of--OPRAH: I'm afraid I'm going to have to cut you off there, Erika. You'll have to tell us now who you're voting for.JAMES: Well, Jesus, of course. Really, Fifty Shades is an allegory, a modern version of Dante's--OPRAH: That's incredibly interesting, Erika, and I wish we had more time to talk about it. But now the score's 1-1, and we're moving on to our third member of the jury. Your turn, Lindsay!LOHAN: Thank you everyone, and I'd particularly like to thank my parole officer for allowing me to join you tonight. She said it'd be good for me. [Laughter, applause]. So, yeah, Love. To me, love's about trying to find my soulmate. I bet there's plenty of you people who feel the same way I do, there's someone out there who's, like, the other half of me and I have to find that person to be complete. You know? And it's really hard to guess who that person is, maybe it's a guy, like, you know, maybe Justin or Ashton or Zac or Ryan, and we were once this person who was half a man and half a woman and we got split apart, or maybe it's a woman, like maybe Sam or--OPRAH: Lindsay, that's such a moving thought, but we've got to watch the clock. Who are you voting for?LOHAN: Well, duh, Socrates of course. It's all there in the Symposium. The Aristophanes speech. I must have read it a million times.OPRAH: Lindsay, thank you so much, and I really hope you find your soulmate one day. You just need to keep looking. So Socrates has taken a 2-1 lead and we're going over to our next speaker. Richard?DAWKINS: Ah, yes. Now, I've been sitting here listening to all of you, and I've enjoyed your contributions, but I'm a scientist and I've got to think about things in a scientific way. When I think about love as a scientist, all I ultimately see is tropisms and feedback loops. An organism feels a lack of something - it could be as simple as an E. coli needing an essential nutrient - and it does what it can to get it. Love is just the concrete expression of that negative feedback loop. There's nothing--OPRAH: This all sounds like Socrates's speech. I take it you're voting for him then?DAWKINS: What? Oh, no, no, not at all. Jesus, every time. [He takes off his jacket, revealing a T-shirt that says ATHEISTS FOR JESUS.] I can't stand Platonic forms and all that mystical nonsense. Jesus, now there's a straightforward, plain-speaking person with solid humanist values. Just a shame he got mixed up with the religion business.[Boos, catcalls, some scattered clapping. The scoreboard shows 2-2.]OPRAH: Er - right. Always ready to surprise us, Richard! So it's up to Sarah to cast the deciding vote. Over to you, Sarah!PALIN: Well Oprah, I'm afraid I'm not as imaginative as Richard. I'm just a regular small-town girl with regular small-town values, and I was brought up readin' the Sermon on the Mount. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, blessed are ye when men shall revile you, smaller government, lower taxes, support Israel, no to--OPRAH: Is that all in the Sermon on the Mount, Sarah?PALIN: Maybe not in those exact words. But it's there. And you can bet your boots I'm not votin' for a liberal type who hangs around with a bunch of guys what're openly tryin' to get into his-[JESUS and SOCRATES exchange puzzled glances.]PALIN: Anyways. I'm votin' for Jesus.OPRAH: Ah - thank you Sarah. Forthright as ever! So that's 3-2 to The Sermon on the Mount, but well done The Symposium, you were so close. And thank you everyone, particularly Socrates and Mr. Christ, for an amazing and deeply spiritual experience, it's been incredible meeting you all, thank you again, and we'll be back next week.[Credits, theme music]
2795186	In this book Socrates argues that it is not always a good idea to have sex with boys and Aristophanes explains we were once co-joined creatures of three sexes - either male/female, male/male or female/female and were shaped like balls. How could anyone not find this a book worth reading?
812910893	“It’s been less than three years that I’ve been Socrates’ companion and made it my job to know exactly what he says and does each day. Before that, I simply drifted aimlessly. Of course, I used to think that what I was doing was important, but in fact I was the most worthless man on earth—as bad as you are this very moment: I used to think philosophy was the last thing a man should do.” In Praise of Love: An Encore This is a dialogue about the human aspiration towards happiness, and how that desire is best satisfied. Plato’s overriding concern as a teacher is how to achieve eudamonia or how to live the good life. However, this is as difficult a topic to capture in teaching as it is to achieve in action. Hence he approaches the topic by defining many peripheral topics - by showing various aspects of the good life.In The Symposium too the same ultimate question is approached, this time through the question of how to love perfectly. Many wonderful explanation of Love are given but in the end it boils down to how to live the good life through the question of what should one love to do and hence what should one do in life. The answer that emerges is simple - love only things that are ends in themselves, do only them. Ends-in-themselves are not to done for any further end, to achieve something else. And most importantly, they should be eternal. Symposium: The Setting Plato’s dialogues are fictional and often richly dramatic snippets of philosophical imagination. The Symposium is a particularly dramatic work. It is set at the house of Agathon, a tragic poet celebrating his recent poetic victory. Those present are amongst the intellectual elite of the day, including an exponent of heroic poetry (Phaedrus), an expert in the laws of various Greek states (Pausanias), a representative of medical expertise (Eryximachus), a comic poet (Aristophanes) and a philosopher (Socrates). And the political maverick Alcibiades towards the end.The SymposiumThe Symposium consists mainly of a series of praise speeches (encomia), delivered in the order in which these speakers are seated:They begin with the discourse of Phaedrus, and the series contains altogether eight parts divided into two principal sequences: The Speeches 1. Phaedrus: Love makes us noble and gods honor it. Love is the greatest god. Love is nobility. This is the simplest of the speeches.An unconditional praising of Love and this from the same Phaedrus who unconditionally condemns it in his own eponymous dialogue !2. Pausanias (perhaps the most interesting of these speeches for this reviewer): Wants to define Love before praising it. Love is not in itself noble and worthy of praise; it depends on whether the sentiments it produces in us are themselves noble. Differentiates between “Common Love” & “Divine Love”: How hasty vulgar lovers are, and therefore how unfair to their loved ones? "Love is, like everything else, complex: considered simply in itself, it is neither honorable nor a disgrace - its character depends entirely on the behavior it gives rise to. The common, vulgar lover loves the body rather than the soul, his love is bound to be inconstant, since what he loves is itself mutable and unstable. The moment the body is no longer in bloom, “he flies off and away,” his promises and vows in tatters behind him. How different from this is a man who loves the right sort of character, and who remains its lover for life, attached as he is to something that is permanent." Pausanias goes on from this to provide a theory on the origins of Social Customs (of courtship, etc): "We can now see the point of our customs: they are designed to separate the wheat from the chaff, the proper love from the vile. That’s why we do everything we can to make it as easy as possible for lovers to press their suits and as difficult as possible for young men to comply; it is like a competition, a kind of test to determine to which sort each belongs. This explains two further facts: First, why we consider it shameful to yield too quickly: the passage of time in itself provides a good test in these matters. Second, why we also consider it shameful for a man to be seduced by money or political power, either because he cringes at ill-treatment and will not endure it or because, once he has tasted the benefits of wealth and power, he will not rise above them. None of these benefits is stable or permanent, apart from the fact that no genuine affection can possibly be based upon them."***"Only in this case, we should notice, is it never shameful to be deceived; in every other case it is shameful, both for the deceiver and the person he deceives. Suppose, for example, that someone thinks his lover is rich and accepts him for his money; his action won’t be any less shameful if it turns out that he was deceived and his lover was a poor man after all. For the young man has already shown himself to be the sort of person who will do anything for money—and that is far from honorable. By the same token, suppose that someone takes a lover in the mistaken belief that this lover is a good man and likely to make him better himself, while in reality the man is horrible, totally lacking in virtue; even so, it is noble for him to have been deceived. For he too has demonstrated something about himself: that he is the sort of person who will do anything for the sake of virtue—and what could be more honorable than that? It follows, therefore, that giving in to your lover for virtue’s sake is honorable, whatever the outcome. And this, of course, is the Heavenly Love of the heavenly goddess. Love’s value to the city as a whole and to the citizens is immeasurable, for he compels the lover and his loved one alike to make virtue their central concern. All other forms of love belong to the vulgar goddess." Makes one wonder if we should really be proud of our modern methods, sans the niceties of elaborate courtship.3. Eryximachus: Differentiates between “Healthy” & “Unhealthy” Love, doctor that he is.Everything sound and healthy in the body must be encouraged and gratified. Conversely, whatever is unhealthy and unsound must be frustrated and rebuffed: that’s what it is to be an expert in medicine.4. Aristophanes: Bases Love on the conception of Longing & Completion - beautifully illustrated in his famous Myth of Soulmates: We used to be complete wholes in our original nature, and now “Love” is the name for our pursuit of wholeness, for our desire to be complete.Plato also uses this occasion to make fun of Aristophanes by painting whims lewd and bawdy man, given to sensual pleasures and fits of hiccups. There are even direct references to Aristophanes’s irreverent clouds: “Aristophanes, do you really think you can take a shot at me, and then escape? Use your head! Remember, as you speak, that you will be called upon to give an account. Though perhaps, if I decide to, I’ll let you off.” 5. Agathon: Decides to stop the praising of Love and focus on the Qualities of Love - "For every praise, no matter whose: you must explain what qualities in the subject of your speech enable it to give the benefits for which we praise it. So now, in the case of Love, it is right for us to praise him first for what it is and afterwards for its gifts." He goes on toe elaborate on the perfection of Love’s qualities - about the god’s justice, moderation, bravery and wisdom - and how Love confers all these qualities to its devotees. Thus, Love is the source of all good, according to Agathon.6. Socrates: Enough with the Eulogies!Socrates sets out with a series of questions, in an attempt to pin down Love: “You have beautifully and magnificently expounded his qualities in other ways, tell me this, too, about Love. Is Love such as to be a love of something or of nothing?" He proceeds through the same arguments as in Phaedrus and arrives at: “No one is in need of those things he already has.”***“Whenever you say, I desire what I already have, ask yourself whether you don’t mean this: I want the things I have now to be mine in the future as well." Socrates’ Conclusion: Love is a lack and desire to fill that. It is a desire for something lacking or a desire for preservation of what has been acquired. What constitutes eudaimonia is not to be had in a moment in time. “In a word, then, love is wanting to possess the good forever.” If this is the objective of Love, The next question is how to pursue this objective.Answer: Seek Love in Beauty; and Reproduction and Birth, in Beauty - The argument does not deviate much from that in Phaedrus; readers will want to compare this speech on Love with those of Socrates in Phaedrus.Socrates’ account thus moves from an analysis of the nature of such desire to an account of knowledge and its acquisition; for if we all have a desire for our own good and happiness, the issue becomes how to identify correctly the nature of this good. He defines intellectual activity to be the best good, and more central to human happiness than any other activity.7. Alcibiades: An almost pointless speech, does not contribute much to the dialogue directly, and yet it does, by adding to the context:Plato’s Political Intent: Praise Socrates & Distance Socrates from the follies of this young man.Alcibiades’ account reveals that although he desires the wisdom he perceives in Socrates, there is a competing value pulling him away: “Yet when I leave him I am equally aware that I am giving in to my desire for honor from the public, so I skulk out of his sight like a runaway slave.” This conflict between the attractions of wisdom and the sort of excellence that earns honour from the people is the very one argued out theoretically in Socrates’ speech. Alcibiades’ choice to organize his life around the pursuit of personal honor exonerates Socrates from any association with the terrible events that resulted from his choices. Socrates was not responsible for the corruption. Plato’s Philosophical Intent: Also, show how even Socrates’ teachings are not flawless. Even Philosophy is dependent on good students to produce results. Symposium: A Conclusion The Symposium belongs with the dialogues concerned with Education, especially the moral education of the young. Its discussion of the nature and goals of loving relationships takes us to the heart of Plato’s concern with the good life and how it is achieved. That Education and Desires are seen to play such an important role in moral development draws on a theme elaborated in the Republic , and is concerned with the development of character and how that contributes to the good life.Though Plato leads us to the lofty heights of the Forms as the true end of our desire for good things and happiness, his account is nonetheless one that resonates beyond such abstractions. The Symposium does not contain a fully developed theory of the self, although it outlines with considerable care the dimensions of concern which preoccupy human beings. Its achievement is a rich and unitary image of human striving.Through this conception, even if narrow, of a flourishing life where certain things are advocated to the young as valuable, the dialogue explores the nature of eudaimonia, which may be translated as "happiness" or "flourishing". This is ultimately why a dialogue devoted, on the surface, to the nature of erotic relationships is an ethical work at its core, which culminates in the specification of ‘the life which a human being should live’. And it is this concern that relates the Symposium to a fundamental question that informs a variety of Platonic dialogues: How should one live?Thus, Plato’s concern with desire and its role in the good life leads to his conclusion: One’s ability to act well and to lead a worthwhile and good life depends, in part, on desiring the right kinds of things and acting on that basis. What, or whom, one desires determines the choices one makes and thereby affects one’s chances of leading a worthwhile and happy life.It is by prompting us to reflect more deeply on the relationship between our desires and their real end, and the role that our lovers might play in helping us to achieve it, that the Symposium really makes its mark.
6460390006	plato really said “fuck socrates” and meant that literally
1041186156	افلاطون، در رساله ی بسیار دلکش "ضیافت" ، بحث مفصلی راجع به حقیقت "عشق" می کند.رساله به بازگویی ماجرای یک ضیافت می پردازد. آگاتون میهمانی ای گرفته و نخبگان را دعوت کرده، از آن جمله است: سقراط استاد افلاطون. بحث به چیستی عشق می رسد و هر کس از میهمانان سخنرانی ای زیبا و غزل گونه در ستایش عشق می کند.از جمله، یکی می گوید: انسان ها در ابتداى آفرينش شان، جفت جفت به هم متصل بودند، و شكلى كروى مى ساختند. اين جفت هاى به هم پيوسته، چنان كامل و قدرتمند بودند، كه خواستند بر ضد خدايان آسمان بشورند، و خدايان كه ترسيدند از ايشان شكست بخورند، تدبيرى انديشيدند: اين جفت هاى كروى را از هم جدا كردند.از آن پس جفت هاى از هم جدا افتاده، ديگر فكر نبرد با خدايان از سرشان افتاد؛ چرا كه حالا در به در به دنبال نيمه ى گمشده ى خود مى گشتند، و تمام دغدغه شان يافتن "او"يى است كه فقط به وسيله ى او كامل مى شوند.نوبت که به سقراط می رسد، با دلخوری می گوید: «من گمان داشتم وقتی گفتید "از چیستی عشق بحث کنیم"، منظورتان بحث دقیق و موشکافانه بود، نه این که صرفاً به عبارت پردازی های شاعرانه بپردازیم.»و خودش، بحثی فلسفی و زیبا در حقیقت عشق می کند. به طور خلاصه، می گوید: «به رغم آن چه که شما گفتید، عشق اصلاً زیبا نیست ، بلکه درست بر عکس: عشق در مقابل زیبایی است. عشق در حقیقت "طلب زیبایی" است ، و کسی در "طلب" زیبایی می رود که فاقد آن باشد.»
632274229	It has been a long time since I first read The Symposium. That was back in university, in my freshman year course Sexuality in Literature. I admit I found it all a bit shocking: the open tolerance of sexual relationships between men and boys—wasn’t it pederasty? Even now, it is surprising to find that one of the most influential and foundational works on love in Western history is largely focused on relationships that have often been deemed illegal. Imagine what the medieval Europeans would have thought of this work, had it not been entirely inaccessible to them in Latin. Maybe they would have enjoyed the notion of spiritual, Platonic love, but I doubt they would have liked Alcibiades’ intrusion.Well, after re-reading this little dialogue, I can only concur with the verdict of the crowd: that this is one of Plato’s most perfect works. Indeed, it is among the handful of Plato’s works that is arguably more valuable as literature than as philosophy. Plato was a writer in perfect control of his craft; and even little detail of this short dialogue bursts with life. The reader feels as if she is really there, eavesdropping on a bunch of drunken Athenians as they extemporize on love.Further, organizing the dialogue as a sequence of speeches, and not as a dialogue between Socrates and an interlocutor, effectively reduces the sometimes unpleasant aspect of Plato’s works—of Socrates forcing his way through an awkward argument, as his admirers assent to his every fallacious deduction. Plato here shows us a genuine diversity of opinions and styles, proving himself a versatile writer. His portrayal of Aristophanes is particularly charming and memorable, a gentle counter to Aristophanes’ satirical portrayal of Socrates in The Clouds. And for anyone who has ever been in love, I suspect that Aristophanes’ little myth will be far more resonant than the ideal love described by Socrates.
1965824975	In 1993 a reincarnation of Plato in the form of Haddaway posed the question that had been asked two and a half thousand years ago by the original, namely, “What is love?”. I suspect that having wrestled for an answer over millennia without getting even close to a definitive answer Haddaway wisely avoided the mental gymnastics of his predecessor and chose to deflect the question by responding with a request, “Baby don’t hurt me…no more”. If only love was as simple as the state of not being hurt we would all be happier but impoverished culturally. As it transpires, Haddaway was not as expert in these matters as the Ancient Greeks who had multiple names for the variations of love. Here we have a roll call of the great and the good (Socrates, Aristophanes, Alcibiades among them) who all take turns to shove in their two penn’orth on the subject. Is love the physical erotic love embodied by Aphrodite, is love the appreciation of that which is good or that which is beautiful? Does beauty derive from the possessor’s inherent goodness? Is love the spur to achieving greatness or spiritual fulfilment? Who is the more worthy in a love affair – the lover or the beloved (and interesting question because, whether we care to acknowledge it or not, in every romantic couple there is one who loves more)? There is even a display of the most painful of loves – the obsessive unrequited. Can those two adjectives be separated when it comes to love? Everyone has felt, enjoyed or suffered love and this is a very human and humane series of declamations on the highs, lows and vagaries of a driving force in most people’s lives. If you are tired of modern love manuals telling you not to phone before waiting 3 days, how to enforce boundaries and quizzes to find out if you are co-dependent read this because you will realise that love is all things to all men, unchanging over millennia and yet still indefinable and incomprehensible and that is somehow more reassuring than imagining that love can be reduced to a series of rules.
4317660653	في حب سقراط أو المثل التي تحملها شخصية سقراط أو الأمنيات التي يحلم أفلاطون بوجودها أو الجمال الذي يسري في حوار الصحبة أو الكلمات المتأنقة التي تتلاحق لتتعانق في حديث صادق أو الحصة الراقية التي تعرض الدرس بعبقرية تعدد الأصوات أفلاطون ليس فيلسوفا إنما روائي فذ يجمع شخصياته ويحدد سماتها وعلاقاتها ومنطوق كل منها ويتحدث تحت الأقنعة بفكر لا ينتهي لأن حضور الأحبة في الخيال رائع أفلاطون علامة ثقافية للحب الروحي الحب الذي تتدفق فيه المشاعر في حوار الحوار الأفلاطوني رمز لقيمة العاطفة في صياغة الفكر الذي يقيم المدن الفاضلة ولو كانت في الخيال تصل بين شخصين فقط
3941918757	Ia să văd ce-mi mai amintesc. Nu foarte mult...A. Mai mulți bărbați (no woman, no cry) se adună, în anul 416 î.e.n., pentru un festin (organizat de Agathon). Festinul va rămîne pînă la sfîrșit ascetic, participanții vor cultiva doar plăcerile spiritului. Așadar, e un banchet al înțelepților, al cetățenilor subțiri. În grecește, participanții la un astfel de banchet se numeau Sympotes.B. Tradiția banchetului se va păstra pînă în vremea lui Aulus Gellius (120 - 180 e.n.). În Noctes Atticae, Gellius menționează mai multe întîlniri de acest fel. C. Dialogul consemnează șase discursuri despre Eros, șase logoi erotikoi.i) Doar erosul îi împinge pe un individ să se jertfească pentru altul. Jertfa de sine e „un ingredient al relației erotice” (Phaidros). ii) Erosul e frumos pentru că îl face pe cel iubit mai înțelept și mai bun (Pausanias); iii) El este o forță cosmică. Peste multe secole, așa îl va prezenta și Dante Alighieri (Paradisul, XXXIII, v. 145): „L'amor che move il sole e l'altre stelle” (Eriximach).iv) La origine, au existat trei specii de creaturi foarte violente: barbat/barbat, femeie/femeie și androgin. Zeus și Apollo au hotărît să le înjumătățească și, din milă, le-au dăruit dorința reunirii. Cînd două jumătăți se întîlnesc, simt fericirea inexprimabilă a iubirii Aristophan).v) Eros e cel mai norocos, frumos, tînăr și virtuos dintre zei (Agaton).vi) Cel aflat sub puterea erosului dorește ceea ce nu are: nu poți iubi decît ceea ce nu posezi. Eros este, în realitate, un daimon. Părinții săi au fost Poros (Răzbătătorul) și Penia (Sărăcia, Lipsa). Erosul îi ajută sufletul omului să urce în lumea Formelor. Ascensiunea reprezintă o scară erotică - de la frumosul individual la Frumosul în sine (discursul preotesei Diotima din Mantineea, reprodus de Socrate).D. Sosit mai tîrziu la banchet, Alkibiade ține și el un discurs. Socrate vrea să-i răspundă, dar colocviul este stricat de o ceată de cheflii. Obosiți de discuții, toți adorm, cu excepția lui Socrate și Aristodem: „A adormit întîi Aristofan, apoi, cînd s-a făcut de tot lumină, și Agaton. Socrate, după ce i-a văzut cufundaţi în somn, s-a ridicat și a plecat, iar Aristodem, cum îi era obiceiul, s-a luat după el. Socrate s-a dus la Liceu și, după ce și-a făcut baia, și-a petrecut ziua ca pe oricare altă zi. Către seară a luat-o spre casă, să se odihnească” (223d, p.168-169).
2597917371	Από τη μία, οφείλω να υποκλιθώ στο βάθος της σκέψης του Πλάτωνα και των υπόλοιπων αρχαίων φιλοσόφων, ειδικά λαμβάνοντας υπόψιν την εποχή κατά την οποία γράφτηκαν τα κείμενα αυτά.Από την άλλη, δεν μπορώ να μην σκεφτώ ότι τελικά, απλώς είχαν βρει έναν εκπληκτικό τρόπο για να δικαιολογήσουν την - τότε μη κοινωνικά αποδεκτή - ομοφυλοφιλία τους, αλλά και την παιδεραστία τους.
2083337252	چند وقت پيش در جواب دوستم كه مى گفت دلم ميخواد عاشق بشم گفتم من اصلن نميدونم عشق چى هست ! نميدونستم كمتر از يه ماه بعد چشمم به يه همچين كتابى ميخوره و دو ساعته مى خونمش و حرفمو پس ميگيرم .. چه كتابى ، چه توصيفاتى .. حَض كامل و ديگر هيچ .
4196062678	89th book of 2021. 4.5. A 2000+ year old discussion on Love, a subject that can never tire. Though I started at 4-stars, I think I'll bump it to 5 purely on account of it lingering about in my mind since finishing, which to me is always the sign of something greater. I read for those books that possess you. Several dialogues within a "dialogue". When considering the wider context it's doubly interesting to ponder why Plato decided on the form of this text. Though the people are real there's no indication of any such evening happening or even any such speeches being given, Plato has fabricated a dinner party and dropped in Socrates, Phaedrus, Pausanias, Eryximachus, Aristophanes, Agathon, Socrates and Alcibiades to drink, chat and talk. (Though Socrates is obviously a heavy-weight—why wouldn't he be?) It's no doubt that Aristophanes' speech is perhaps the greatest of the text and has been stated by some as Plato's 'most brilliant literary achievement'. Having said that, it is within Socrates' speech that my favourite quote from the text occurs: Later he will observe that physical beauty in any person is closely akin to physical beauty in any other, and that, if he is to make beauty of outward form the object of his quest, it is great folly not to acknowledge that the beauty exhibited in all bodies is one and the same; when he has reached this conclusion he will become a lover of all physical beauty, and will relax the intensity of his passion for one particular person, because he will realise that such a passion is beneath him and of small account. The next stage is for him to reckon beauty of soul more valuable than beauty of body... And finally to add to the review, purely because I wish to keep it myself, this tender description of Socrates' character, 'The servant brought me water to wash before I sat down, and another servant came and said that Socrates had taken up position in a neighbour's front porch, and was standing there, deaf to all the servant's entreaties to come in. "What an odd thing," said Agathon. "Go and call him again and don't take no for an answer.""No," I said, "let him alone. It's a way he has. He goes apart sometimes and stands still wherever he happens to be. He will come presently, I am sure; don't bother him, but let him be."
3254293679	Η επιρροή του Πλάτωνα στη διαμόρφωση της Δυτικής σκέψης είναι οπωσδήποτε καθοριστική. Ωστόσο, αυτό που θαυμάζω περισσότερο από τις ιδεαλιστικές του θεωρίες, είναι η λογοτεχνική του δεινότητα. Ο τρόπος με τον οποίο δομεί τους Διαλόγους του (σε μεγάλο βαθμό κοινός σε όλα τα έργα του) είναι αριστοτεχνικός, χωρίς να χρειάζεται να λάβουμε υπόψη ότι η λογοτεχνική παραγωγή τον 5ο αιώνα π.Χ. ήταν ακόμα μικρή (προφανώς δεν υπήρχαν ακόμα λογοτεχνικά ρεύματα, εκδότες, όγκος λογοτεχνικής παραγωγής, κλπ.). Σίγουρα ο Πλάτωνας ήταν σημαντικός φιλόσοφος, ήταν όμως και μεγάλος μαέστρος της τέχνης του λόγου.Το Συμπόσιο θεωρείται ότι γράφτηκε περίπου το 385 π.Χ., ανήκει επομένως στα έργα της ωριμότητας του Πλάτωνα. Μετά τη νίκη του ποιητή Αγάθωνα στους τραγωδικούς αγώνες της Αθήνας, έχουν συγκεντρωθεί στο σπίτι του σημαντικές πνευματικές προσωπικότητες της εποχής, μεταξύ των οποίων και ο Σωκράτης. Δεκαπέντε περίπου χρόνια μετά, ο Απολλόδωρος ξεκινά να αφηγείται τι συζητήθηκε σε αυτό το συμπόσιο. Επειδή όμως ο Απολλόδωρος δεν ήταν παρών και έχουν περάσει πολλά χρόνια από το γεγονός, προειδοποιεί τον ανώνυμο ακροατή του (και μαζί μ' αυτόν και εμάς) ότι κάποια πράγματα μπορεί να μην έγιναν ακριβώς έτσι ή να έχει παραλείψει ορισμένα μέρη του διαλόγου, θα κάνει πάντως το καλύτερο που μπορεί.Μετά από παραίνεση του Φαίδρου, επιλέγεται το κεντρικό θέμα του διαλόγου: ο έρωτας. Ένας-ένας οι παρευρισκόμενοι ξεκινούν να πλέκουν το εγκώμιο του θεού Έρωτα και να επαινούν τις αρετές του έρωτα και τις ευεργεσίες προς τους ανθρώπους. Βεβαίως δε μιλάμε για τον έρωτα γενικά, αλλά συγκεκριμένα τον έρωτα μεταξύ "εραστή" και "ερωμένου", τον έρωτα που γεννιέται και δημιουργείται μεταξύ ανδρών, συνηθέστατα μεταξύ ενός μεγαλύτερου άνδρα και ενός νεότερου αγοριού.Κατά τα συνήθη στους πλατωνικούς διαλόγους, αφού οι συνομιλητές του Σωκράτη τοποθετηθούν και αναπτύξουν όλα τους τα επιχειρήματα, έρχεται ο ίδιος ο Σωκράτης στο προσκήνιο, ο οποίος μέσω της διαλεκτικής του μεθόδου καταρρίπτει όσα προηγήθηκαν και θεμελιώνει τη θεωρία του περί έρωτος, η βάση της οποίας ασφαλώς (γιατί δεν πρέπει να ξεχνάμε ποιος μιλάει μέσω του Σωκράτη) είναι ιδεαλιστική. Κάθε νέος ομιλητής προσθέτει κάτι στο λόγο του προηγούμενου, συμπληρώνει ή διορθώνει μία πτυχή της ανάλυσής του, ώστε όταν πλέον μιλά ο Αγάθωνας (τελευταίος πριν το Σωκράτη) έχει δημιουργηθεί μία πλήρης εικόνα του θέματος, την οποία θα κληθεί να αποδομήσει ο Σωκράτης.Υπάρχουν πάντως και ορισμένες ιδιαιτερότητες του Συμποσίου σε σχέση με τους άλλους διαλόγους. Πρώτον, ο Σωκράτης δεν μιλάει για τον εαυτό του, αλλά μεταφέρει τα λόγια της μάντισσας Διοτίμας. Οι ερωτήσεις που υποβάλει ο Σωκράτης στους συνομιλητές του (και συγκεκριμένα στον Αγάθωνα, που είναι ο τελευταίος που μιλά πριν από αυτόν) είναι ελάχιστες. Αντίθετα, οι περισσότερες ερωτήσεις υποβάλλονται στον ίδιο το Σωκράτη διά στόματος Διοτίμας. Βλέπουμε δηλαδή ότι εδώ ο Σωκράτης δεν είναι το υποκείμενο της μαιευτικής και της διαλεκτικής αλλά το αντικείμενο της μεθόδου που ο ίδιος χρησιμοποιεί στους άλλους, μπαίνει στη θέση του συνομιλητή που πείθεται από τα επιχειρήματα της Διοτίμας και μετά απλώς μεταφέρει τη γνώση που του έχει μεταδώσει και στους υπόλοιπους. Μία δεύτερη διαφορά, είναι ότι ο διάλογος δε λήγει με την ανάλυση του Σωκράτη, αλλά συνεχίζεται όταν στο σπίτι του Αγάθωνα καταφτάνει μεθυσμένος ο Αλκιβιάδης. Ο Αλκιβιάδης, αφού ενημερώνεται για το θέμα της συζήτησης, αποφασίζει να πλέξει το εγκώμιο όχι του Έρωτα αλλά του ίδιου του Σωκράτη.Πρώτος ξεκινά ο Φαίδρος, ως εισηγητής του θέματος: Ο Έρωτας, λέει ο Φαίδρος, είναι ο αρχαιότερος θεός, που οδηγεί τους ανθρώπους στις ευγενικότερες και πιο ανδρείες πράξεις γιατί όποιος είναι ερωτευμένος ντρέπεται να δείχνει άνανδρος ή να κάνει κακές πράξεις μπροστά στο αντικείμενο του πόθου του. Οι θεοί επιβραβεύουν τις μεγάλες πράξεις που κινούνται από την επιθυμία ενός άνδρα να τον θαυμάζει ο εραστής του.Δεύτερος μιλά ο Παυσανίας, ο εραστής του Αγάθωνα: Επιχειρώντας να συμπληρώσει την ομιλία του Φαίδρου, προβαίνει σε μία διάκριση. Κατά τον Παυσανία, υπάρχουν δύο θεοί. Ο πρώτος είναι ο "πάνδημος" έρωτας, αυτός που πηγάζει από τη σωματική επιθυμία και ο δεύτερος είναι ο "ουράνιος", αυτός που πηγάζει από την ψυχή και οδηγεί στα ανώτερα συναισθήματα μεταξύ των ανδρών. Κατά τον Παυσανία, καμία πράξη δεν είναι εξ ορισμού κακή, αλλά ο χαρακτηρισμός της εξαρτάται από τον τρόπο με τον οποίο ασκείται. Ο έρωτας λοιπόν είναι καλός όταν είναι ουράνιος, όταν ασκείται με καλό τρόπο και με άξιο εραστή και οδηγεί στην αρετή. Ένα παιδί που γίνεται ερωμένος άξιου εραστή θα αποκτήσει γνώσεις από αυτόν και θα μορφωθεί, καθώς ο εραστής θα συμβάλει στη διαμόρφωση του χαρακτήρα του και την εκπαίδευσή του. Κατά τον Παυσανία, αυτός είναι ο καλός έρωτας, ο δικαιολογημένος και επιθυμητός.Στη συνέχεια, ο Ερυξίμαχος, ως γιατρός, σωματικοποιεί τον έρωτα. Διαφοροποιώντας τη θέση του από εκείνη του Παυσανία, ότι δηλαδή ο έρωτας είναι μόνο ψυχικός, υποστηρίζει ότι ο έρωτας κυβερνά την ιατρική και τη μουσική και ότι ο πάνδημος έρωτας έχει την αξία του, καθώς οδηγεί στην κάρπωση της ηδονής. Η ηδονή για τον Ερυξίμαχο είναι καλός σκοπός, όταν δεν οδηγεί στην ακολασία. Επομένως, το ζητούμενο είναι να υφίσταται ισορροπία μεταξύ του πάνδημου και του ουράνιου έρωτα.Ο Αριστοφάνης, παίρνοντας το λόγο, διηγείται ένα μύθο. Ο μύθος μας είναι γνωστός, στα παλιά τα χρόνια οι άνθρωποι είχαν στρογγυλό σχήμα και είχαν όλα τα μέλη τους διπλά (4 χέρια, 4 πόδια, 2 κεφάλια, διπλά γεννητικά όργανα, κοκ). Είχαν όμως μεγάλη έπαρση και ο Δίας τους χώρισε στη μέση, έκτοτε δε όλοι οι άνθρωποι αναζητούν το άλλο τους μισό, αυτό που τους στέρησε η οργή του θεού. Επειδή λοιπόν τότε τα γένη ήταν τρία (αρσενικό, θηλυκό και ανδρόγυνο), η ερωτική επιθυμία διαμορφώνεται ανάλογα με την προέλευση του κάθε ανθρώπου από ένα από τα τρία γένη. Όσοι άνδρες προέρχονται από το ανδρόγυνο γένος, έλκονται από τις γυναίκες. Αντίθετα, όσοι προέρχονται από το αρσενικό, επιθυμούν να πλαγιάζουν με άνδρες, είναι δε αυτοί που τελικά, όντας αρρενοπώτεροι (άλλα ήθη), όταν μεγαλώνουν γίνονται οι μεγάλοι πολιτικοί άνδρες. Εδώ λοιπόν ο Αριστοφάνης διατυπώνει την πιο διαδεδομένη άποψη για τον έρωτα: ότι οδηγεί στην ολοκλήρωση του ανθρώπου όταν βρίσκει το άλλο του μισό.Ο Αγάθων, μετά τον Αριστοφάνη, επισημαίνει ότι όλοι μίλησαν για την επίδραση που έχει ο έρωτας στον άνθρωπο, κανείς όμως δεν τον όρισε, δεν είπε τι και ποιος είναι ο έρωτας. Επιχειρώντας λοιπόν να τον ορίσει ο ίδιος, μας λέει ότι ο Έρωτας δεν είναι ο αρχαιότερος θεός, όπως είπε ο Φαίδρος, αλλά ο νεότερος και ομορφότερος. Δεν αδικεί ούτε αδικείται, όλες οι ηδονές κυριαρχούνται από αυτόν. Ο έρωτας εμπνέει τη δημιουργία όχι μόνο στις καλές αλλά και στις πρακτικές τέχνες.Εδώ τελειώνει το πρώτο μέρος του διαλόγου και ξεκινά το δεύτερο. Ο Σωκράτης, αφού κάνει μερικές ερωτήσεις στον Αγάθωνα, ξεκινά να διηγείται τι του δίδαξε η Διοτίμα. Ο έρωτας επιθυμεί τα καλά και τα ωραία, επομένως δεν είναι ούτε καλός ούτε ωραίος, όπως λέει ο Αγάθων, γιατί βέβαια κανείς δεν μπορεί να επιθυμεί ό,τι έχει ήδη. Επομένως, ούτε θεός μπορεί να είναι ο έρωτας, αφού οι θεοί σίγουρα είναι και καλοί και αγαθοί. Είναι επομένως ο έρωτας ένας δαίμων (γιος του Πόρου και της Πενίας), που μεσολαβεί μεταξύ θεών και ανθρώπων, βοηθώντας τους θνητούς να μετέχουν στο θεϊκό στοιχείο. Και πώς γίνεται αυτό; Μέσω της γέννησης μέσα στο ωραίο, γιατί μέσα στην ασχήμια τίποτα δεν μπορεί να γεννηθεί. Με τη γέννηση, που είναι αιώνια και αθάνατη για τους θνητούς, ο άνθρωπος αφήνει στη θέση του κάτι νέο. Αυτός είναι και ο λόγος, συνεχίζει η μάντισσα, που οι άνθρωποι κάνουν γενναίες πράξεις, προκειμένου να μένει η αιώνια ανάμνηση της αρετής τους. Συνεχίζοντας, η Διοτίμα κάνει μια διάκριση. Οι άνθρωποι που εγκυμονούν τη γέννηση στο σώμα στρέφονται προς την παιδογονία και με τον τρόπο αυτό, αφήνοντας απογόνους, μετέχουν στην αθανασία. Αντίθετα, όσοι εγκυμονούν στην ψυχή ασχολούνται με τη δημιουργία, ανώτερη μορφή της οποίας είναι η σωφροσύνη και η δικαιοσύνη (η ενασχόληση δηλαδή με τα κοινά). Και επειδή η γέννηση μόνο μέσα στο ωραίο μπορεί να γίνει, οι άνδρες γεννούν μεγάλα έργα μέσω της επαφής με το ωραίο σώμα και την καθοδήγηση και την εκπαίδευση που λαμβάνουν από τον εραστή τους. Όταν κάποιος δε δει το ωραίο σώμα, θα πρέπει να αντιληφθεί ότι αυτό έχει μικρότερη σημασία όταν και η ψυχή είναι ωραία και ακόμα περισσότερο όταν οι συνήθειες του εραστή είναι καλές και οι γνώσεις του επίσης. Και καταλήγει η μάντισσα Διοτίμα ότι η ανώτερη γνώση που κατακτά κανείς μέσω του έρωτα είναι η γνώση της ιδέας της ομορφιάς. Μέσω του έρωτα δηλαδή ο άνθρωπος κατακτά το αγαθό της ομορφιάς.Εδώ τελειώνει ο λόγος του Σωκράτη και εισέρχεται, μεθυσμένος και υποβασταζόμενος από μία αυλητρίδα, ο Αλκιβιάδης, για να στεφανώσει με κορδέλες τον Αγάθωνα για τη μεγάλη του επιτυχία στους αγώνες. Ο διάλογος κλείνει με το εγκώμιο του Αλκιβιάδη για το Σωκράτη. Τον παρομοιάζει τον με ένα Σειληνό, ο οποίος εξωτερικά είναι άσχημος αλλά μέσα του κρύβει την απόλυτη ομορφιά, η οποία γίνεται αντιληπτή μέσω του λόγου του. Εκφράζει την αναπόδραστη ερωτική έλξη που του ασκεί ο Σωκράτης και κλείνει με την προσωπική του μαρτυρία για την ανδρεία του (ο Πλάτωνας μας λέει ότι ο Σωκράτης έσωσε τον Αλκιβιάδη στη μάχη της Ποτίδαιας), την πνευματική του δύναμη και τη σωφροσύνη του.Το Συμπόσιο, θεωρώ, είναι από τα πιο πολυδιάστατα έργα της αρχαιοελληνικής γραμματείας αλλά και ένα δείγμα αριστοτεχνικής δόμησης του έργου. Ο τρόπος με τον οποίο τοποθετούνται τα πρόσωπα του διαλόγου, οι λόγοι τους, οι εναλλαγές των επιχειρημάτων, είναι τέλειος στην απλότητά του. Η ροή κάθε λόγου είναι συνεχής, αλλά ο Πλάτωνας επεμβαίνει σε συγκεκριμένα σημεία προκειμένου να επαναφέρει το διάλογο και να συνυφάνει όλους τους λόγους των συνομιλητών πριν την κορύφωση του πλατωνικού ιδεαλισμού που ενσαρκώνει ο λόγος του Σωκράτη.
3994940332	گفتار اندر ستایشِ محمدعلی فروغیاین کتاب با ۳۵صفحه دیباجه به قلمِ آقای «محمدعلی فروغی» آغاز می‌گردد. اعتراف می‌کنم برای بار دوم است که شیفته‌ی یک دیباجه می‌شوم، نخستین بار پس از خواندنِ «افسانه‌های تبای» با ترجمه‌ی بی‌نظیر و شاهکارِ آقای «شاهرخِ مسکوب» بود که کتاب دارای یک دیباجه و موخره‌ای غیرقابل توصیف بود که از دیدِ من ارزشِ ادبیِ‌ آن کمتر از خود تراژدی نبود و دومین بار هنگام و پس از مطالعه‌ی این دیباجه. در دیباجه‌ای که به قلمِ محمدعلی فروغی در این کتاب به چاپ رسیده است، از سرگذشت و زندگانیِ افلاطون، اصل و نسبِ او، تعبیرِ خوابِ سقراط و مرگِ او، سفرهای افلاطون، چگونگیِ تاسیسِ نخستین آکادمی توسطِ افلاطون و حضورِ ارسطو در آن، روش‌های تدریس افلاطون، آثار افلاطون، ویژگی‌های رسائلِ افلاطون و چگونگیِ آثارش، ویژگی‌های فلسه‌ی افلاطون و... برای خواننده اطلاعات بسیار با ارزشی به ارمغان آورده است.از این جهت ضمنِ تشکرِ صمیمانه از ایشان برای روحشان آرزوی شادی و مغفرت می‌نمایم.گفتار اندر معرفیِ کتابضیافت، عنوانِ فارسی و ترجمه‌شده‌ی رساله‌ی «شب‌نشینی یا مهمانی» از افلاطون است که توسطِ آقای «محمدابراهیم امینی‌فرد» ترجمه و نهایتا توسطِ «انتشارات جامی» چاپ و منتشر گردیده است.متنِ ترجمه‌ی کتاب روان و بدون مشکل یا هرگونه پیچیدگی‌ِ ادبی‌ست و از دیدِ‌ من خواننده هنگامِ خواندنِ این رساله دچار دلزدگی یا کسالت نمی‌گردد.از معرفی نام و مترجمِ کتاب که بگذرم باید عرض کنم که این رساله یکی از سی و اندی رساله‌ی تاییدِ اصالت شده‌ی افلاطون است. شیوه‌ی نگارشِ رساله‌های افلاطون بسیار جالب است، او معتقد بود خواندنِ کتاب به قلم‌های مرسوم نمی‌تواند باعثِ‌ آگاهی خواننده شود مگر آنکه به شکلِ یک گفتگو نگارش شود، به همین دلیل رساله‌های او به فیلم‌نامه‌های تئاتر شباهت بسیاری دارند و عمدتا از گفتگوی او با چند نفر نگارش شده است.گفتار اندر معرفیِ شخصیت‌هافدروسپوزانیاسآروکسی ماخوسآریستوفانسآگاتونسقراطآلکیبیادسگروهی شراب‌خوارگفتار اندر داستانِ‌ کتابآگاتون به واسطه‌ی نوشتنِ یک تراژدی به شهرت و محبوبیت رسیده بود و به همین منظور ضیافتی ترتیب می‌دهد و دوستان و نزدیکانِ اهلِ حکمتِ خود را از جمله فدروس، پوزانیاس، آروکسی ماخوس، اریستوفانس، آگاتون، سقراط، آلکیبیادس و ... را به آن ضیافت دعوت می‌کند.پس از صرف شام، آگاتون موضوعِ بحث و گفتگو را به پیشنهادِ «فدروس»(یکی از حاضرینِ جمع) «عشق» تعیین می‌کند چون از نظرِ فدروس شاعرانِ یونانی در آن دوران در وصف و ستایش هر چیزی شعر سروده بودند جز عشق و ستایشِ «اروس»(خدایِ عشق) و نهایتا حاضرین نیز موافقت می‌کنند که در موردِ آن به بحث و گفتگو بنشینند.به ترتیبِ نام‌های ذکر شده در فوق، هر کدام در توصیفِ عشق سخن‌وری می‌کنند تا اینکه نوبت به سقراط می‌رسد و ... .پس از اتمامِ صحبت‌های سقراط نیز ناگهان «آلکیبیادس» مست و خراب به شرحی که در کتاب می‌خوانیم وارد مجلس می‌شود و شروع به ستایش و نقدِ سقراط می‌پردازد... .نقل‌قول نامه"تا سرانجامِ کسی را ندانی، نمی‌توان حکم کرد که خوشبخت است یا نیست. (سولون)""چه خوب بود اگر حکمت همانندِ آب می‌بود که چون از یک ظرف لبریز گردد بتواند به رفِ خالیِ‌دیگری ریخته شود. تا هر دو به اندازه‌ی یکدیگر از هم بهره‌مند شوند. (سقراط)""بدبختیِ آدم‌های نادان در این است که خود را دانا می‌شمارند.""میان دانایی و نادانی فاصله وجود دارد. باورِ درستی که نتواند منطقِ خود را ثابت کند، دانایی نیست اما چون شناختِ به حقیقت است، نادانی هم نمی‌باشد و این فاصله‌ی میانِ دانایی و نادانی است. (سقراط)"کارنامهاین کتاب به شدت خواندنی‌ست اما از آن دسته از کتاب‌هایی‌ست که باید در زمانِ‌ مناسب و با تمرکزِ کافی خوانده شود تا مفاهیمِ بنیادین و فلسفیِ آن‌را درک کرد، خواندنِ این کتابِ ارزشمند را به نمامِ‌ دوستانِ‌ اهلِ مطالعه‌ی خود پیشنهاد می‌کنم و ۵ستاره برای آن منظور می‌کنم.بیست و یکم اردیبهشت‌ماه یک‌هزار و چهارصد
1706535258	خیلی کتاب خوبی بود.. زیاد پیش اومده بود که بشنوم سقراط از شیوه ی پرسش و پاسخ استفااده می کنه برای بحث کردن.. تو این کتاب اولین بار این دیدم چطور و چقدر هوشمندانه این کار رو انجام میده..داستان کتاب در مورد ضیافتیه که برگزار شده و بحث عشق میان حضار پیش میاد. که اول هر کدوم از حاضرین نظرشون رو می گن، و در نهایت سقراط، به طرز دلنشینی از عشق صحبت می کنه که واقعا دوست دارم یک بار دیگه سطرهای مربوط به سقراط رو بخونم.
693188018	I Never Met a Physician Who Wasn’t Descended from a GreekThis might just be the work that put the "meta-" (at least the "metafiction") in "metaphysics".Plato’s name is attached to it, but its principal focus is Socrates. And guess what? Socrates doesn’t so much elaborate on his own views as (1) recount the views of others (especially those of the female philosopher Diotima) and (2) indirectly reveal his views by his conduct and his responses to the views of others (especially the taunts of Alcibiades).Even the concept of "Platonic Love" could possibly be more accurately attributed to Socrates, but more likely to Diotima.In fact, I wonder whether this work proves that the Greek understanding of Love (as we comprehend it) actually owes more to women than men.The Epismetology of the Word "Symposium"Despite being familiar with the word for decades, I had no idea that "symposium" more or less literally means a "drinking party" or "to drink together".In Socrates’ time, it was like a toga party for philosophers.It’s great that this learned tradition was reinvigorated by Pomona College in 1953. How appropriate that Pomona was the Roman goddess of fruitful abundance. Of course, many of us will remember our first experience of a toga party from the film "Animal House".More recently, perhaps in tribute to the film, the concept has transformed into a "frat party" (notice the derivation from the masculine word "fraternity"), which Urban Dictionary defines in its own inimitable way:"A sausage fest with douchebag frat boys who let a lot of girls in and hardly any guys so they can slip date rape drugs into the girls’ drinks and have sex with them because obviously they can't rely on their charm."If you substitute philosophers for frat boys, young boys for young girls, and wine and mead for date rape drugs, then you have the recipe for "The Symposium".Alcohol-Free DazeI should mention one other aspect of the plot (sorry about the spoiler, but the work is 2,400 years old today, so you've had enough time to catch up), and that is that Socrates appears to have attended two symposia over the course of two consecutive days.In those days, future philosophers were counselled to embrace alternating alcohol-free days.In breach of this medical advice, Socrates and his confreres turn up to this Symposium hung-over from the previous night. As a result, there was more talking than drinking. If this had just been your run-of-the-mill Saturday Night Live Symposium, it’s quite possible that the legacy of this particular night might never have eventuated. Instead, we have inherited a tradition of Greek Love, Platonic Love, Socratic Method and Alcohol-Free Tutorials.An Artist in Comedy as Well as TragedyOne last distraction before I get down to Love:It has always puzzled readers that "The Symposium" ends with a distinct change of tone as the feathered cocks begin to crow and the sun rises on our slumber party:"Aristodemus was only half awake, and he did not hear the beginning of the discourse; the chief thing which he remembered was Socrates compelling the other two to acknowledge that the genius of comedy was the same with that of tragedy, and that the true artist in tragedy was an artist in comedy also."Researchers at the University of Adelaide now speculate that what Socrates was saying was, "When you’re pissed, nobody can tell whether you’re serious or joking."There is still some contention as to whether Socrates was referring to the inebriation of the artist or the audience.Anyway, it remains for us to determine how serious this Socratic Dialogue on Love should be taken.Togas on? Hey, Ho! Let’s go!The Mocking Socrates’ Easy TouchOK, so the tale starts with Apollodorus telling a companion a story that he had heard from Aristodemus (who had once before narrated it to Glaucon, who had in turn mentioned it to the companion – are you with me?). The tale concerns a Symposium at the House of Agathon. On the way, Socrates drops "behind in a fit of abstraction" (this is before the days of Empiricism) and retires "into the portico of the neighbouring house", from which initially "he will not stir".When he finally arrives, he is too hung-over to drink or talk, so he wonders whether "wisdom could be infused by touch, out of the fuller into the emptier man, as water runs through wool out of a fuller cup into an emptier one."Addressing his host, he adds, "If that were so, how greatly should I value the privilege of reclining at your side!"As often seems to be the fate of flirts, Agathon rebuffs him, "You are mocking, Socrates."Instead, it is agreed that each of the attendees will regale the withered assembly with their views on Love.Phaedrus (on Reciprocity)Phaedrus speaks of the reciprocity of Love and how it creates a state of honour between Lover and Beloved. A state or army consisting of lovers whose wish was to emulate each other would abstain from dishonor, become inspired heroes, equal to the bravest, and overcome the world.Phaedrus also asserts that the gods admire, honour and value the return of love by the Beloved to his Lover, at least in a human sense, more than the love shown by the Lover for the Beloved.Paradoxically, this is because the love shown by the Lover is "more divine, because he is inspired by God".I had to have an alcohol-free day before I understood this subtle distinction, so don’t worry if you’re having trouble keeping up.Pausanius (on the Heavenly and the Common)Pausanius argues that there are two types of Love that need to be analysed: the common and the heavenly (or the divine).The "common" is wanton, has no discrimination, "is apt to be of women as well as youths, and is of the body rather than of the soul".In contrast, heavenly love is of youths: "...they love not boys, but intelligent beings whose reason is beginning to be developed, much about the time at which their beards begin to grow…and in choosing young men to be their companions, they mean to be faithful to them, and pass their whole life in company with them."This love is disinterested (it is not "done from any motive of interest, or wish for office or power") and involves both honourable attachment and virtuous service.Eryximachus (on the Healthy and the Diseased)Eryximachus, a physician, defines Love in terms of both the soul and the body.He distinguishes two kinds of love: the desire of the healthy and the desire of the diseased. These two are opposites, and the role of the physician is to harmonise or "reconcile the most hostile elements in the constitution", by analogy with music, which is an "art of communion".Aristophanes (on "The Origin of Love")Aristophanes explains the origin of the gender and sexuality of mankind in terms of three beings, one of which was a double-male (now separated into homosexual men), one a double female (now separated into homosexual women) and the third an androgynous double (now separated into heterosexual male and female) by Zeus:"...the intense yearning which each of them has towards the other does not appear to be the desire of lover’s intercourse, but of something else which the soul of either evidently desires and cannot tell, and of which she has only a dark and doubtful presentiment ...human nature was originally one and we were a whole, and the desire and pursuit of the whole is called love."Agathon (on Beauty)Agathon praises the god of love first and then his gift. Love in the form of Temperance is the master of pleasures and desires. It "empties men of disaffection and fills them with affection." Love is concerned with Beauty.Socrates (on Good)Socrates approaches the topic of Love by asking questions, for example, "whether Love is the Love of something or nothing?"Socrates elicits the answer that Love wants Beauty and in doing so it wants what is Good.He then quotes Diotima extensively.The Pizmotality of DiotimaDiotima, by a process that we would now call the Socratic Method, leads Socrates to the conclusion that Love is the love of the "everlasting possession of the Good". We seek Good, so that we can maintain it eternally. "Love is of immortality."Because Man is mortal, our way of achieving eternity or immortality of possession is the generation or birth of Beauty.We achieve immortality by way of fame and offspring.Diotima argues that Beauty applies to both the soul and the body. However, the "Beauty of the Mind is more honourable than the Beauty of the outward Form."She advocates the contemplation of "Beauty Absolute":"...a Beauty which if you once beheld, you would see not to be after the measure of gold, and garments, and fair boys and youths, whose presence now entrances you; and you and many a one would be content to live seeing them only and conversing with them without meat or drink, if that were possible – you only want to look at them and to be with them…[you would not be] clogged with the pollutions of mortality and all the colours and vanities of human life..."Socrates does not reveal how else Diotima tutored him in the art and science of Love or whether she herself was a Beauty Absolute whose appeal was greater than that of boys and youths. Alciabades (on Indifference)At this point, the younger Alciabades speaks. He is equal parts frat and prat, he is evidently "in love" with Socrates, and seems intent on complaining that Socrates has resisted his sexual advances. Even though Alciabades had slept a night with "this wonderful monster in my arms... he was so superior to my solicitations...I arose as from the couch of a father or an elder brother."It is clear that Socrates has no affection for the mind of Alciabades, no matter what he might think of his body. He teases him by proposing that Socrates and Agathon share a couch for the night.The Pompatus of LoveAnd that's how it ends, but for the discussion of Comedy and Tragedy.If this had been a PowerPoint Presentation, Socrates, Plato and I would have told you what we were going to say, then say it, and end by telling you what we had just said.But because this work is pre-Microsoft, I will end this disquisition here, largely because I want to read Plato’s complementary work on Love, "Phaedrus", and see what more he has to say about Socrates, this mentor of frat boys who was so much more than a picker, a grinner, a lover and a sinner. Only then will I be able to speak more definitively of the Pompatus of Love.VERSE:The Object of Love[According to Aristophanes]I would loveTo find One,An Other,So we couldEach love oneAnother,In divineUnity.SOUNDTRACK:Steve Miller Band – "The Joker"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=89QliW...Hedwig and the Angry Inch - "The Origin of Love"Scroll to 3:57 for video:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=29fiaL...Hedwig and the Angry Inch - "The Origin of Love"Spanish subtitles:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nTTNJZ...John Cameron Mitchell on "The Origin of Love"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Hu4UL...Carol Zou - Animation of "The Origin of Love"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1BgvD0...StickdudeSeven - Animation of "The Origin of Love"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4HgJ6x...FoxmanProductions - Animation of "The Origin of Love"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DvcX_m...Jinkx Monsoon - "The Origin of Love" [Live with cocktail glass]Starts at 2:50 (but the intro is fun):http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JFbC6k...Jinkx Monsoon - "The Origin of Love" [Live at the 2013 Capital Pride Festival]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNQBSB...Rufus Wainwright - "The Origin of Love"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BYQGgl...Robyn Hitchcock - "Intricate Thing"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h7Av0x...The Velvet Undergound & Nico - "Femme Fatale"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FjjDmX...Lou Reed - Sweet Jane (Live with Steve Hunter)http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LrMLt9...Cowboy Junkies - "Sweet Jane" (Official Video)http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x4XVJj...Cowboy Junkies - "Sweet Jane" (Live on Japanese TV)http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJ3W9i...
7315774257	I arrived at ‘The Symposium’, by Plato, through Milan Kundera’s ‘The Unbearable Lightness of Being’. Kundera’s mega-hit fell a bit flat for me, but writing a piece that included an appreciation of androgyny, I was taken by his mention of Plato’s reference to a myth about hermaphrodism.The excellent introduction, in this edition by Christopher Gill, gives the historical context of symposiums in Ancient Greece. The symposiums were a male prerogative for high-ranking individuals. The attendees would be regaled with music, dance, and the opportunity for pederasty, as young men would accept and offer affection, as the participants reclined, were fanned, ate grapes, and got inebriated. Inebriation oiled the wheels that loosened inhibitions, so participants were more likely to postulate and expound on a chosen theme. The theme of Plato’s Symposium was love, and we’re presented with seven speeches on the theme of love by the gathering. Some of the speeches were a little frivolous or highly speculative, others labyrinthine, though the language of ‘The Symposium’ is always accessible. One of the most notable is Pausanias’, which presents the case for older men having relationships with younger men, but not boys as is commonly supposed, the determiner being that they had passed through pubescence. He postulated that these homoerotic relationships had greater value than the heterosexual ones. After, Socrates relates how Diotima told him that men of a young age start with an attraction to beautiful bodies (think of youngsters theiving Playboy from the top shelf when the shopkeeper's back is turned), and then … well, they're satisfied with any ship in a storm! Gradually, this becomes a nobler quest for beautiful minds (I suspect many never reach this stage), and then an unquenchable desire for knowledge, which ultimately leads to a negation of the sexual imperative through Platonic idealism. Not that in your dotage sex is irrelevant, but it is of secondary importance to developing the intellect. It appears that Hugh Hefner was not a fan of Socratic philosophy.However, it was the charming exposition of androgyny and love in Aristophanes’s speech that interested me the most. He expounded, not entirely tongue in cheek, that human beings were of three types: male, female, and hermaphrodite, and composed of two halves each with their own complete set of body parts, like a Janus figurine. They tried to scale the bastions of Mount Olympus in order to challenge the Gods. Zeus, in his fury, threw thunderbolts that split each in two. From that point onwards, each half was always seeking its corresponding half; a valid definition of searching for one’s soulmate. Clearly, the original male combinations were compelled to have homosexual relationships, likewise the female combinations, lesbian relationships; only the hermaphroditic pairing would be satisfied in a heterosexual partnership.There are some lighthearted moments. We learn that hiccups can be purged by not just by holding one’s breath or gargling with water (dropping a key down one’s back or having someone frighten you), but by the nose being tickled by a feather.I didn’t know that.If one is easily offended by the misogyny or sexual conduct of Athenians, then ‘The Symposium’ is best avoided. Nearly two and a half thousand years ago, sexual practices were quite different. Indeed, it was only a hundred years ago that the treatment of women was unacceptable. If changes happen so rapidly then millennia entirely upends mores, morals, and sexual offense laws! What will they think of us in the year 4525? How vulgar and perverse was it that we actually participated in physical contact when having sex? Isn’t it more gracious and intensely erotic, like a J'naii in Star Trek, to form intimate relations with telepathy and a connection of minds?A fascinating read. Recommended.
2383319815	امتیاز واقعی: ۲/۵اگر می‌خواهید برای لذت بخوانید. نخواندید هم چیزی از دست ندادید.کتاب شیرینی است. ولی اگر دنبال نگاهی دقیق و فلسفی به عشق هستید، اشتباه آمدید. جمعی در ضیافتی نشسته‌اند و هرکس از عشق چیزی می‌گوید. سقراط هم یکی از آن‌هاست. حرف‌ها قریب به اتفاق از شیرین‌گویی، آسمان‌ ریسمان بافتن، استعاره‌بازی و اسطوره‌گویی فراتر نمی‌رود. پخته‌ترین‌شان سقراط است. کمی دقیق‌تر سخن می‌راند ولی آن چنان هم حرف حسابی ندراد.
3870519840	Intelektualci antičke Atine (filozof, lekar, pisac tragedija, komediograf...) dođu na pijanku i pričaju o ljubavi, pričaju o poseti javnoj kući, a sve je postavljeno u literarno zanimljivu strukturu, nekakvu priču-u-priči-u-priči. Ne znam kako sam zamišljao Platonove dijaloge dok ih nisam čitao, ali ovako sigurno ne. Svako od prisutnih priča o ljubavi iz svog ugla. Sjajna je priča komediografa Aristofana, a super je i uvod u nju - Aristofan mora da se reši štucanja da bi mogao da je ispriča. Govori o ljudima kakvi su nekad bili, sa 4 ruke, 4 noge, 1 glavom i 2 reproduktivna organa. Ti ljudi su postali suviše moćni i počeli su da smetaju bogovima, pa ih je Zevs jednostavno prepolovio - onako po visini. Svako od nas je dobio svega po pola, pa i polovinu glave. A pošto svaka polovina želi da bude potpuna, čezne za onom drugom polovinom. "Žudnji za celinom i lovu na nju ime je ljubav."Redom ljubav opisuju kao dobru (nebeska, ljubav prema duši) ili lošu (telesna), kao platonsku ljubav između muškaraca, ali i kao direktnu homoseksualnu ljubav, koja je bila dosta uobičajena. Zapravo je možda nemoralna samo ljubav odraslih muškaraca sa dečacima, ali ne zato što su ti dečaci još deca, već zato što ne znamo kakvi će biti kad odrastu, pa tako ne znamo da li volimo dobru osobu. Kao i obično kod Platona, ima ovde dobrih i loših argumenata, sve dok ne nastupi super-zvezda večeri. Sokrat prepričava razgovor iz javne kuće sa Diotimom, dok je još bio mlad. Šta ljubav želi? Najpre lepotu, potom posed, na kraju dobro, ali i da joj to dobro uvek pripada. A to dobro je za svakog od nas sreća, uvek tražimo stvari koje će nas zauvek osrećiti. Romantična ljubav je jedan način, ali Sokrat govori i o drugačijoj žudnji - da rađamo i kreiramo. Kreiranje može biti zidanje kuće ili košnja trave, ali srećnima nas prave pre svega stvari koje nam daju besmrtnost. Deca koju ostavljamo kao deo sebe nakon što odemo, na primer, ali ako možemo ostaviti slavu, umetnost ili nekakav veliki izum, tek to je zadužbina."I svaki bi voleo da su mu se takva deca rodila nego ljudska, kad pogleda i na Homera i na Hesioda i na ostale dobre pesnike, zavideći im što iza sebe ostavljaju takvo potomstvo, koje im daje besmrtnu slavu i uspomenu. Njima su već i mnogi hramovi podignuti zbog takve dece, a zbog ljudske još nikome."Sokrata je predmet požude, iako već u godinama u kakvima ga uvek i zamišljamo. Plejboj tadašnje Atine Alkibijad, koji je mogao da ima svaku ženu i muškarca, prepričava pokušaj da ga zavede. Jednom je čak i uspeo da ga odvede u krevet, ali nije tu bilo ničega osim sna. "Bio sam odista u neprilici, i lutao sam naokolo, zarobljen od toga čoveka kao niko ni od koga drugoga."Sokrat je super-čovek. "Prevazilazio je u vojničkim naporima ne samo mene, nego i sve ostale. Ništa nisu bili ostali prema njemu u otpornoj snazi; činio je čuda - jedared kad je bio izvanredno jak mraz, te svi ili nisu uopšte izlazili ili, ako bi ko izašao, obukao bi čudo haljina, i obuo se, i umotao noge u pustinu i u ovčije kože, a ovaj je među njima izlazio u onakvoj odeći kakvu je i ranije obično nosio, a bos je išao po ledu lakše nego drugi obuveni."A Sokrat je i neko koga niko nikada nije video pijanog. Nakon što je većina prisutnih odustala i pozaspala, samo su Agaton, Aristofan i Sokrat ostali budni i pili iz velike čaše. Ali "oni nisu više mogli da ga prate, jer su bili pospani; prvi je zaspao Aristofan, a kad je već bio dan, i Agaton. Pošto ih je tako uspavao, Sokrat je ustao i otišao. Došao je u Likejon, okupao se, pa je zatim ostali deo dana provodio kao i inače, i pošto ga je tako proveo, tek uveče kod kuće legao je da spava."
4863863124	One of my favorite works of philosophy that I have read up to now. The Symposium is both a great literary work and a great philosophical work at once. It combines into one work through the excellent use of contrast both low-brow comedy, and beautiful prose; high philosophy alongside drunken debauchery, and it is in these well executed contrasts that Plato so magnificently articulates the Socratic view of love. Contrasting the purely material view of love held by Aristophanes and others to the transcendent view of love held by Socrates. Reflecting and building upon the platonic idea of the world of forms explained in the cave allegory in The Republic. There is a poem by Rumi that articulates this same idea very eloquently, There is some kiss we wantwith our whole lives,the touch of spirit on the body.Seawater begs the pearlto break its shell.And the lily, how passionatelyit needs some wild darling!At night, I open the windowand ask the moon to comeand press its face against mine.Breathe into me.Close the language - door andopen the love window.The moon won't use the door,only the window. There is some Kiss that we want with our whole lives, the touch of the spirit on the body. Socrates like Rumi makes the argument that this is the driving force behind man's love, a yearning of our souls for eternity.
2083614556	Lectura #6 de la materia de Teoría del Conocimiento, "El Banquete".Citas y pequeños comentarios de uso personal:Sabios reunidos: Fedro, Agaton, Eriximaco, Pausanias, Aristodemo, Aristófanes*Tributo al amor."El Amor es un gran dios, muy digno de ser honrado por los dioses y por los hombres por mil razones, sobre todo, por su ancianidad; porque es el más anciano de los dioses."*Palabra clave: virtud."No conozco mayor ventaja para un joven, que tener un amante virtuoso; ni para un amante. que el amar un objeto virtuoso.""No hay hombre tan cobarde a quien el Amor no inspire el mayor valor y no le haga semejante a un héroe."*Los dioses miraban el amor como una virtud."El que ama tiene un no sé qué de más divino que el que es amado, porque en su alma existe un dios.""Toda acción en sí misma no es bella ni fea; lo que hacemos aquí, beber, comer, discurrir, nada de esto es bello en sí, pero puede convertirse en tal, mediante la manera como se hace. Es bello, si se hace conforme a las reglas de la honestidad; y feo, si se hace contra estas reglas. Lo mismo sucede con el amor. Todo amor, en general, no es bello ni laudable, si no es honesto."*La comparación de las dos venus."Es bello amar cuando la causa es la virtud."*Amor virtuoso que pertenece a la Venus celeste. Todos los demás a la venus popular (EROS)."El amor no reside sólo en el alma de los hombres, donde tiene por objeto la belleza, sino que hay otros objetos y otras mil cosas en que se encuentra ; en los cuerpos de todos los animales, en las producciones de la tierra; en una palabra, en todos los seres; y que la grandeza y las maravillas del dios brillan por entero, lo mismo en las cosas divinas que en las cosas humanas.""Es bello y necesario ceder a lo que hay de bueno y de sano en cada temperamento, y en esto consiste la medicina; por el contrario, es vergonzoso complacer a lo que hay de depravado y de enfermo"*Amor en la ciencia."La armonía es una consonancia; la consonancia un acuerdo, y no puede haber acuerdo entre cosas opuestas, mientras permanecen opuestas; y así las cosas opuestas, que no concuerdan, no producen armonía.""En otro tiempo la naturaleza humana era muy diferente de lo que es hoy. Primero había tres clases de hombres: los dos sexos que hoy existen, y uno tercero compuesto de estos dos, el cual ha desaparecido conservándose sólo el nombre. Este animal formaba una especie particular, y se llamaba andrógino, porque reunía el sexo masculino y el femenino; pero ya no existe y su nombre está en descrédito. En segundo lugar, todos los hombres tenían formas redondas, la espalda y los costados colocados en círculo, cuatro brazos, cuatro piernas, dos fisonomías, unidas a un cuello circular y perfectamente semejantes, una sola cabeza, que reunía estos dos semblantes opuestos entre sí, dos orejas, dos órganos de la generación, y todo lo demás en esta misma proporción. Marchaban rectos como nosotros, y sin tener necesidad de volverse para tomar el camino que querían. Cuando deseaban caminar ligeros, se apoyaban sucesivamente sobre sus ocho miembros, y avanzaban con rapidez mediante un movimiento circular, como los que hacen la rueda con los pies al aire. La diferencia, que se encuentra entre estas tres especies de hombres, nace de la que hay entre sus principios. El sol produce el sexo masculino, la tierra el femenino, y la luna el compuesto de ambos, que participa de la tierra y del sol. De estos principios recibieron su forma y su manera de moverse, que es esférica. Los cuerpos eran robustos y vigorosos y de corazón animoso, y por esto concibieron la atrevida idea de escalar el cielo, y combatir con los dioses, como dice Homero de Efialtes y de Oto. Júpiter examinó con los dioses el partido que debía tomarse. El negocio no carecía de dificultad; los dioses no querían anonadar á los hombres. como en otro tiempo á los gigantes, fulminando contra ellos sus rayos, porque entonces desaparecerían el culto y los sacrificios que los hombres les ofrecían; pero, por otra parte, no podían sufrir semejante insolencia. En fin, después de largas reflexiones, Júpiter se expresó en estos términos: Creo haber encontrado un medio de conservar los hombres y hacerlos más circunspectos, y consiste en disminuir sus fuerzas. Los separaré en dos; así se harán débiles y tendremos otra ventaja, que será la de aumentar el número de los que nos sirvan; marcharán rectos sosteniéndose en dos piernas sólo, y si después de este castigo conservan su impía audacia y no quieren permanecer en reposo, los dividiré de nuevo, y se verán precisados a marchar sobre un solo pié, como los que bailan sobre odres en la fiesta de Caco. Después de esta declaración, el dios hizo la separación que acababa de resolver, y le hizo lo mismo que cuando se cortan huevos para salarlos, o como cuando con un cabello se los divide en dos partes iguales. En seguida mandó a Apolo que curase las heridas y colocase el semblante y la mitad del cuello del lado donde se había hecho la separación, a fin de que la vista de este castigo los hiciese más modestos. Apolo puso el semblante del lado indicado, y reuniendo los cortes de la piel sobre lo que hoy se llama vientre, los cosió a manera de una bolsa que se cierra, no dejando más que una abertura en el centro, que se llama ombligo. En cuanto a los otros pliegues, que eran numerosos, los pulió, y arregló el pecho con un instrumento semejante á aquel de que se sirven los zapateros para suavizar la piel de los zapatos sobre la horma, y sólo dejó algunos pliegues sobre el vientre y el ombligo, como en recuerdo del antiguo castigo. Hecha esta división, cada mitad hacia esfuerzos para encontrar la otra mitad de que había sido separada; y cuando se encontraban ambas, se abrazaban y se unían, llevadas del deseo de entrar en su antigua unidad , con un ardor tal, que abrazadas perecían de hambre e inacción,no queriendo hacer nada la una sin la otra. Cuando la una de las dos mitades pereda, la que sobrevivía buscaba otra, a la que se unía de nuevo, ya fuese la mitad de una mujer entera, lo que ahora llamamos una mujer, ya fuese una mitad de hombre; y de esta manera la raza iba extinguiéndose. Júpiter, movido a compasión, imagina otro expediente: pone delante los órganos de la generación, por que antes estaban detrás, y se concebía y se derramaba el semen, no el uno en el otro, sino en tierra como las cigarras. Júpiter puso los órganos en la parte anterior y de esta manera la concepción se hace mediante la unión del varón y la hembra. Entonces, si se verificaba la unión del hombre y la mujer, el fruto de la misma eran los hijos; y si el varón se unía al varón, la saciedad los separaba bien pronto y los restituía á sus trabajos y demás cuidados de la vida. De aquí procede el amor que tenemos naturalmente losunos a los otros; él nos recuerda nuestra naturaleza primitiva y hace esfuerzos para reunir las dos mitades y para restablecernos en nuestra antigua perfección. Cada uno de nosotros no es más que una mitad de hombre, que ha sido separada de su todo, como se divide una hoja en dos. Estas mitades buscan siempre sus mitades. Los hombres que provienen de la separación de estos seres compuestos, que se llaman andróginos, aman las mujeres; y la mayor parte de los adúlteros pertenecen a esta especie, así como también las mujeres que aman a los hombres y violan lasleyes del himeneo. Pero a las mujeres, que provienen de la separación de las mujeres primitivas, no llaman la atención los hombres y se inclinan más á las mujeres; a esta especie pertenecen las trihades. Del mismo modo los hombres, que provienen de la separación de los hombres primitivos, buscan el sexo masculino. Mientras son jóvenes aman a los hombres; se complacen en dormir con ellos y estar en sus brazos; son los primeros entre los adolescentes y los adultos, como que son de una naturaleza mucho más varonil. Sin razón se les echaba en cara que viven sin pudor, porque no es la falta de éste lo que les hace obrar así, sino que dotados de alma fuerte, valor varonil y carácter viril, buscan sus semejantes; y lo prueba que con el tiempo son más aptos que los demás para servir al Estado. Hechos hombres á su vez aman los jóvenes, y si se casan y tienen familia, no es porque la naturaleza los incline a ello, sino porque la ley los obliga. Lo que prefieren es pasar la vida los unos con los otros en el celibato. El único objeto de los hombres de este carácter, amen o sean amados, es reunirse a quienes se les asemeja. Cuando el que ama a los jóvenes o a cualquier otro llega a encontrar su mitad, la simpatía, la amistad, el amor los une de una manera tan maravillosa, que no quieren en ningún concepto separarse ni por un momento. Estos mismos hombres, que pasan toda la vida juntos, no pueden decir lo que quieren el uno del otro, porque si encuentran tanto gusto en vivir de esta suerte, no es de creer que sea la causa de esto el placer de los sentidos. Evidentemente su alma desea otra cosa, que ella no puede expresar, pero que adivina y da á entender. Y si cuando están el uno en brazos del otro, Vulcano se apareciese con los instrumentos de su arte, y les dijese: ¡Oh hombres!, ¿qué es lo que os exigís recíprocamente?» y si viéndoles perplejos, continuase interpelándoles de esta manera: lo que queréis, ¿no es estar de tal manera unidos, que ni de día ni de noche estéis el uno sin el otro? Si es esto lo que deseáis, voy a fundiros y mezclaros de tal manera, que no seréis ya dos personas, sino una sola; y que mientras viváis, viváis una vida común como una sola persona, y que cuando hayáis muerto, en la muerte misma os reunáis de manera que no seáis dos personas sino una sola. Ved ahora si es esto lo que deseáis, y si esto DOS puede hacer completamente felices. Es bien seguro, que si Vulcano les dirigiera este discurso, ninguno de ellos negarla, ni responderla, que deseaba otra cosa, persuadido de que el dios acababa de expresar lo que en todos los momentos estaba en el fondo de su alma; esto es, el deseo de estar unido y confundido con el objeto amado, hasta no formar más que un solo ser con él. La causa de esto es que nuestra naturaleza primitiva era una, y que éramos un todo completo, y se da el nombre de amor al deseo y prosecución de este antiguo estado. Primitivamente, como he dicho, nosotros éramos uno; pero después en castigo de nuestra iniquidad nos separó Júpiter, como los arcadios lo fueron por los lacedemonios. Debemos procurar no cometer ninguna falta contra los dioses, por temor de exponernos a una segunda división, y no ser como las figuras presentadas de perfil en los bajorrelieves, que no tienen más que medio semblante, o como los dados cortados en dos. Es preciso que todos nos exhortemos mutuamente a honrar a los dioses, para evitar un nuevo castigo, y volver á nuestra unidad primitiva bajo los auspicios y la dirección del Amor. Que nadie se ponga en guerra con el Amor, porque ponerse en guerra con él es atraerse el odio de los dioses. Tratemos, pues, de merecer la benevolencia y el favor de este dios, y nos proporcionará la otra mitad de nosotros mismos, felicidad que alcanzan muy pocos.""Sea lo que quiera, estoy seguro de que todos seremos dichosos, hombres y mujeres, si, gracias al Amor, encontramos cada uno nuestra mitad, y si volvemos a la unidad de nuestra naturaleza primitiva. Ahora bien, si este antiguo estado era el mejor, necesariamente tiene que ser también mejor el que más se le aproxime en este mundo, que es el de poseer á la persona que se ama según se desea. Si debemos alabar al dios que nos procura esta felicidad, alabemos al Amor, que no sólo nos sirve mucho en esta vida, procurándonos lo que nos conviene, sino también porque nos da poderosos motivos para esperar, que si cumplimos fielmente con los deberes para con los dioses,nos restituirá él á nuestra primera naturaleza después de esta vida, curará nuestras debilidades y nos dará la felicidad en toda su pureza.""Para alabar al Amor, es preciso decir lo que es el Amor""La mayor ventaja del Amor es que no puede recibir ninguna ofensa de parte de loshombres ó de los dioses, y que ni dioses ni hombres pueden ser ofendidos por él, porque si sufre ó hace sufrir es sin coacción, siendo la violencia incompatible con el amor. Solo de libre voluntad se somete uno al Amor, y a todo acuerdo, concluido voluntariamente, las leyes, reinas."*JUSTICIA, TEMPLANZA, FUERZA -CARACTERÍSTICAS DEL DIOS DEL AMOR."El Amor es un poeta tan entendido, que convierte en poeta al que quiere; y esto sucede aun cuando sea uno extraño A las Musas, y en el momento que uno se siente inspirado por el Amor; lo cual prueba que el Amor es notable en esto de llevar á cabo las obras que son de la competencia de las Musas, porque no se enseña lo que se ignora, como no se da lo que no se tiene.""El Amor es el que da paz a los hombres, calma a los mares, silencio a los vientos, lecho y sueño a la inquietud. Él es el que aproxima a los hombres, y los impide ser extraños los unos a los otros; principio y lazo de toda sociedad, de toda reunión amistosa, preside a las fiestas, a los coros y a los sacrificios. Llena de dulzura y aleja la rudeza; excita la benevolencia e impide el odio. Propicio a los buenos, admirado por los sabios, agradable a los dioses, objeto de emulación para los que no lo conocen aún, tesoro precioso para los que le poseen, padre del lujo, de las delicias, del placer, de los dulces encantos, de los deseos tiernos, de las pasiones; vigila a los buenos y desprecia a los malos. En nuestras penas, en nuestros temores, en nuestros disgustos, en nuestras palabras es nuestro consejero, nuestro sostén, y nuestro salvador. En fin, es la gloria de los dioses y de los hombres, el mejor y más precioso maestro, y todo mortal debe seguirle y repetir en su honor los himnos de que él mismo se sirve, para derramar la dulzura entre los dioses y entre los hombres."*Es una mujer quien tiene la respuesta a lo que es verdaderamente el amor, Diotima."El que desea, desea lo que no está seguro de poseer, lo que no existe al presente, lo que no posee, lo que no tiene, lo que le falta. Esto es, pues, desear y amar.""El Amor carece de belleza, y si lo bello es inseparable de lo bueno, el Amor carece también de bondad.""La verdadera opinión ocupa un lugar intermedio entre la ciencia y la ignorancia.""—¿No llamas dichosos a aquellos que poseen cosas bellas y buenas?—Seguramente.—Pero estás conforme en que el Amor desea las cosas bellas y buenas, y que el deseo a una señal de privación.—En efecto, estoy conforme en eso.—¿Cómo entonces, repuso Diotima, es posible que el Amor sea un dios, estando privado de lo que es bello y bueno?—Eso, a lo que parece, no puede ser en manera alguna.—¿No ves, por consiguiente, que también tú piensas que el Amor no es un dios?—¡Pero qué!, la respondí, ¿es que el Amor es mortal?— De ninguna manera.—Pero, en fin, Diotima, dime que es.—Es, como dije antes, una cosa intermedia entre lo mortal y lo inmortal.—¿Pero qué es por último?—Un gran demonio, Sócrates; porque todo demonio ocupa un lugar intermedio entre los dioses y los hombres.""Los demonios llenan el intervalo que separa el cielo de la tierra; son el lazo que une al grantodo. De ellos procede toda la esencia adivinatoria y el arte de los sacerdotes con relación a los sacrificios, a los misterios, a los encantamientos, a las profecías y a la magia. La naturaleza divina como no entra nunca en comunicación directa con el hombre, se vale de los demonios para relacionarse y conversar con los hombres, ya durante la vigilia, ya durante el sueño. El que es sabioen todas estas cosas es demoníaco; y el que es hábil en todo lo demás, en las artes y oficios, es un simple operario. Los demonios son muchos y de muchas clases, y el Amor es uno de ellos.""El Amor es lo que es amado y no lo que ama.""—¿Pues cuál es el objeto del amor?—Es la generación y la producción de la belleza.—Pero, ¿por qué el objeto del amor es la generación?—Porque es la generación la que perpetúa la familia de los seres animados, y le da la inmortalidad, que consiente la naturaleza mortal. Pues conforme a lo que ya hemos convenido, es necesario unir al deseo de lo bueno el deseo de la inmortalidad, puesto que el amor consiste en aspirar a que lo bueno nos pertenezca siempre. De aquí se sigue que la inmortalidad es igualmente el objeto del amor.""En efecto, lo que se llama reflexionar se refiere a un conocimiento que se borra, porque el olvido es la extinción de un conocimiento; porque la reflexión, formando un nuevo recuerdo en lugar del que se marcha, conserva en nosotros este conocimiento, si bien creemos que es el mismo. Así se conservan todos los seres mortales; no subsisten absolutamente y siempre los mismos, como sucede a lo que es divino, sino que el que marcha y el que envejece deja en su lugar un individuo joven, semejante a lo que él mismo había sido."Si es preciso buscar la belleza en general, sería una gran locura no creer que la belleza, que reside en todos los cuerpos, es una e idéntica. Una vez penetrado de este pensamiento, nuestro hombre debe mostrarse amante de todos los cuerpos bellos, y despojarse, como de una despreciable pequeñez, de toda pasión que se reconcentre sobre uno sólo. Después debe considerar la belleza del alma como más preciosa que la del cuerpo ; de suerte, que una alma bella, aunque esté en un cuerpo desprovisto de perfecciones, baste para atraer su amor y sus cuidados, y para ingerir en ella los discursos más propios para hacer mejor la juventud."
3157881622	‌هر کس بویی از عشق ببرد، شاعر می شود. عشق است که روح بیگانگی را از ما می گیرد و از روح دوستی و مهر سرشارمان می سازد. اوست که خوش خویی می بخشد و ترش رویی را می زداید. موهبتش، موهبت نیک خواهی است نه کین خواهی و بدخواهی؛ مهر عظیم است. خردمندان را به تأمل و خدایان را به شگفتی وا می دارد. آن که از او محروم است، می طلبدش، و آن که از نعمت درک او برخوردار است چون گنجی عزیزش می دارد.‌‌#ضیافت رساله ای در باب #عشق نوشته #افلاطون است.‌‌داستانِ نمایشنامه از جایی شروع میشود که در مجلس فدروس، پوزایناس، آروکسی ماخوس، آریستوفانوس، آگاتون در مجلسی تصمیم به صحبت درباره ی چیستی عشق میگیرند و در نهایت نظر سقراط را جویا میشوند.‌‌‌از منظر افلاطون عشق دارای سه وجه‌ است.‌‌عشق جنسی یا #اروس ، عشق به دانایی یا فیلوتس و عشق الهی یا آگایه می نامد.در این ضیافت عده ای بر این باورند عشق طلب نیمه گمشده خویشتن است.‌‌‌عده ای آن را هدیه خدایگان میدانند، عده ای منشا تمام زیبایی و عده ای دیگر معتقدند کسانی که به زاد و ولد جسم اشتیاق دارند به زنان رو می‌کنند و آنان که در پی زاد و ولد جان هستند، سراغ دانش و هنر می‌روند و آثاری که از خود به جا می‌گذارند مانند فرزندان آنان است که نامشان را تا ابد زنده نگاه می‌دارد.در این میان دیدگاه فلسفی سقراط بسیار قابل تامل است.‌‌وی استدلال میکند که عشق میل است چون همیشه به همراه چیزی می‌آید که شخص آنرا ندارد مثل عشق به زیبایی، عشق به دانش و..هیچ‌کس چیز خوبی را به‌طور موقت طلب نمی‌کند و می‌خواهد برای همیشه مالک آن باشد.میل به داشتن چیزی برای همیشه، چیزی نیست جز میل به جاودانگی.جاودانگی نسبی» با خلق اثر حاصل می‌شود. خلق اثر می‌تواند تولید مثل یا فرزند باشد یا خلق یک اثر ماندگار ادبی یا هنری.خلق اثر یا خلاقیت در شرایطی میسر است که زمینه و محیط آن فراهم باشد که زیبایی لازمه آن است.بنابراین عشق و زیبایی در این نقطه به هم می‌رسند و باعث جاودانگی می‌شوند.‌‌‌از نظر وی همگان میل شدیدی به جاودانگی دارندو خلاقیت محصول میل به جاودانگی است.سقراط برای زیبایی سلسله مراتب تعریف می‌کند:‌‌مرحلهٔ نخست، عشق به یک جسم؛ دوم، عشق به همهٔ جسم‌ها؛ سوم، عشق به رسوم و قوانینِ زیبا؛ چهارم، عشق به علومِ زیبا و جاودانگی حقیقی با عشق به زیبایی مطلق حاصل می‌شود که #فلسفه یا همان دوست داشتن حکمت است.‌‌وی میگوید عشق در حقیقت «طلب زیبایی» است و کسی در «طلب» زیبایی می رود که فاقد آن باشد.‌"عشق به بیان ساده همان شوق کامل شدن و در پی کمال بودن است."
2491218301	برای شناخت عشق نباید در کتاب ها گشت ، اگر خواستید بگردید توی این کتاب نگردیددر این کتاب فیلسوفان دوره سقراط دور هم جمع شدند و هریک به گونه ای که خود می تواند و می داند عشق را تعریف می کند برای لذت بردن این کتاب رو خوندن کار بسیار پسندیده ایست ، لذت هم خواهید برد مخصوصا وقتی با دیدگاه های متفاوت فیلسوفان دو هزار و چهارصد سال پیش آشنا می شویدقسمتی از خطابه پاوسانیاس:همانطور که در آغاز سخن خود گفتم هیچ کاری به خودی خود زشت یا زیبا نیست بلکه هرکاری که به وجهی زیبا صورت گیرد زیباست و اگر به شیوه ای زشت و ناپسند انجام گیرد زشت استعاشق بازاری که عشق او به صورت و تن است ، نه به سیرت و جان عشقی پست دارد، چنان عشقی پایدار نیست چرا که عشق چیزیست گذرنده و فانی و در معرض تغییر و دگرگونی، از این رو وقتی نشاط جوانی گذشت ، عشق او هم زایل می شود و عاشق بال می گشاید و به دنبال عشقی دیگر پرواز میکند و قول و عهد خویش می شکند و همه چیز را فراموش می کند اما عشقی که به خلق و خوی شرافتمندانه ای قرین باشد پابرجاست و فانی ناشدنی
5197366137	Armándose del relato de un testigo, Platón nos introduce a un banquete en el que Sócrates, en compañía de otros intelectuales de gran calibre, participa de una ronda de elogios al amor. Es un texto de profunda belleza y gran relevancia para acercarnos al concepto de amor platónico concebido por el filósofo.La reflexión, en forma de una diversidad de discursos que parecen regir culto a Eros desde distintas concepciones, constituye un texto más o menos corto pero de lectura compleja y enriquecida con cada adición. Iniciando por concebirlo como el más delicado y antiguo de los dioses, anexándolo al concepto de todo lo noble, adjudicándole el carácter de inspirador de la poesía y el arte y hasta de alcanzar una mayor nobleza en la forma del amor entre individuos del mismo sexo que de sexos opuestos. Esto es, claro, hasta que Sócrates hábilmente lo desmantela alzándose con su propia visión.Sócrates elabora una descripción del amor no como bueno o bello sino como anhelante del bien y la belleza, como un proceso que inicia en la apariencia física de lo amado pero que trasciende en la persecución de la idea misma de belleza y de la perpetua posesión del bien. Procede además a explicar cómo en este estado de gracia se lleva acabo la generación no de la apariencia de virtud sino de virtud verdadera, conforme a la sabiduría que adquirió de sus diálogos con Diótima de Mantinea.Me parece una aproximación recomendable para cualquiera deseoso de aventurarse en los escritos de Platón de una forma más o menos asequible y amena.
5058782783	Es genial el Banquete. No creí que me iba a gustar tanto. Es muy divertido y asequible. Es demasiado bueno para hacer comentarios mediocres.Transcribo fragmentos del discurso de Aristófanes “sobre la naturaleza humana y las modificaciones que ha sufrido”. Es largo por eso le amputé partes pero recomiendo leerlo todo y leer todo el Banquete que es una maravilla.“En primer lugar, tres eran los sexos de las personas, no dos, como ahora, masculino y femenino, sino que había, además, un tercero que participaba de estos dos, cuyo nombre sobrevive todavía, aunque él mismo ha desaparecido. El andrógino, en efecto, era entonces una cosa sola en cuanto a forma y nombre, que participaba de uno y de otro, de lo masculino y de lo femenino, pero que ahora no es sino un nombre que yace en la ignominia. En segundo lugar la forma de cada persona era redonda” (…) 189de“Tras pensarlo detenidamente dijo, al fin, Zeus: ”Me parece que tengo el medio de cómo podrían seguir existiendo los hombres y, a la vez, cesar en su desenfreno haciéndolos más débiles. Ahora mismo, dijo, los cortare en dos mitades a cada uno.” (…) 190c“Por tanto, cada uno de nosotros es un símbolo de hombre, al haber quedado seccionado en dos de uno solo, como los lenguados. Por esta razón, precisamente, cada uno está buscando siempre su propio símbolo. En consecuencia, cuantos hombres son sección de aquel ser de sexo común que entonces se llamaba andrógino son aficionados a las mujeres, y pertenece también a este género la mayoría de los adúlteros; y proceden también de él cuantas mujeres, a su vez, son aficionadas a los hombres y adúlteras. Pero cuantas mujeres son sección de mujer, no prestan mucha atención a los hombres, sino que están más inclinadas a las mujeres, y de este género proceden también las lesbianas. Cuantos, por el contrario, son sección de varón, persiguen a los varones y mientras son jóvenes, al ser rodajas de varón, aman a los hombres y se alegran de acostarse y abrazarse; éstos son los mejores de entre los jóvenes y adolescentes, ya que son los más viriles por naturaleza. Algunos dicen que son unos desvergonzados, pero se equivocan. Pues no hacen esto por desvergüenza, sino por audacia, hombría y masculinidad, abrazando a lo que es similar a ellos.” 191d a 192a(La traducción es la de M. Martínez Hernández para Gredos)
2089223825	A symposium, in ancient Greece, was a social ritual that was inherently a part of any banquet. After the feasting was over, participants in the banquet would gather together for social drinking and conversation that might also be accompanied by music or dancing. Plato adopts the ritual of the symposium for one of his most famous philosophical dialogues, and in The Symposium he shows Socrates and various interlocutors seeking to understand the nature of Love itself.Plato’s Symposium takes place at the home of the poet Agathon. The guests of Agathon include Phaedrus, a young Athenian aristocrat; Pausanias, a lawyer; Eryximachus, a doctor; Aristophanes, the great playwright who wrote comedies like Lysistrata; and, of course, Socrates. And then there is the notorious Athenian politician Alcibiades, who crashes the party toward the end of the dialogue; but we’ll talk about him later. Christopher Gill of the University of Exeter, who translated and wrote the introduction for this Penguin Books edition of The Symposium, sets this Platonic dialogue in the context of Plato’s Theory of Forms. In the process, he provides one of the best explanations of the Theory of Forms that I have read; so here it is, for the benefit of any of you who may be first- or second-year college or university students with a philosophy exam coming up this Friday:There are certain “Ideas” or “Forms” which constitute the ultimate, objective ground of being, knowledge, and meaning. Here the stress falls on the unchanging, uniform, and universal character of the Form. To reach an understanding of this Form is to understand what beauty really is, as an objective reality, by contrast with our normally partial and localized grasp of beauty. The recognition of beauty “in itself” enables the lover to place in a proper perspective the more limited types of beauty that form the earlier stages of the ascent. It also enables the lover to go as far as any human being can in achieving the overall aim of desire in general. (p. xxxiii)Many of the conversations in The Symposium center around the same-sex intimate relationships that were characteristic of Athenian life at this time; and through those conversations, one can learn a great deal about the laws and social norms that governed such relationships in that place and time. But that is not what Plato is really interested in. Rather, Plato feels that through the higher search that is philosophy, one can attain true virtue and a kind of immortality through the quest toward understanding of the Forms – something that goes far beyond any one interpersonal relationship.The symposium of The Symposium gets off to its proper start when Eryximachus proposes the topic of conversation to all of the participants there assembled: “I propose that each of us should make the finest speech he can in praise of Love, and then pass the topic on to the one on his right” (p. 9).The first of the symposium’s attendees to speak is Phaedrus, the young aristocrat. Phaedrus has his own Socratic dialogue, and in the Phaedrus, as here, Phaedrus comes across as a likeable, idealistic young man of goodwill, but also as someone who is in need of some guidance. In the Phaedrus, Phaedrus is enamoured of rhetoric for its own sake, intoxicated by the sheer power of persuasive language; he needs Socrates to remind him that rhetoric is a tool that can be used for good or evil. In The Symposium, Phaedrus’ views on love are similarly hopeful and benevolent, and comparably naïve.Phaedrus states that he thinks of Love as a god that brings out the best in people – the ability to demonstrate battlefield courage, for instance: “The last person a lover could bear to be seen by, when leaving his place in the battle-line or abandoning his weapons, is his boyfriend; instead, he’d prefer to die many times….If even small numbers of such men fought side by side, they could defeat virtually the whole human race” (p. 10). He sees Love as something that makes a lover capable of true self-sacrifice, stating that “it’s only lovers who are willing to die for someone else; and this is true of women as well as men” (p. 11). In the process, he brings up the example of Alcestis, the princess of Pherae who willingly gave up her own life in order to save her husband from being taken by Death into the underworld – a story movingly told by the playwright Euripides in his play Alcestis.“That’s why,” Phaedrus sums up, “I say Love is the most ancient of the gods, the most honoured, and the most effective in enabling human beings to acquire courage and happiness, both in life and death” (p. 12). And with that, the baton passes to Pausanias.Pausanias, a lawyer, sets forth his arguments rather legalistically, and betrays more than a bit of social-class snobbery into the bargain. “Common Love,” he states, “is genuinely ‘common’ and undiscriminating in its effects; this is the kind of love that inferior people feel. People like this are attracted to women as much as boys, and to bodies rather than minds. They are attracted to partners with the least possible intelligence, because their sole aim is to get what they want, and they don’t care whether they do this rightly or not. So the effect of love on them is that they act without discrimination: it is all the same to them whether they behave well or not” (p. 13).Continuing in the same vein, Pausanias states that “A bad man…is the lover of the common type, who loves the body rather than the mind. He is not constant, because he loves something that is not constant: as soon as the bloom of the body fades, which is what attracted him….But the man who loves goodness of character is constant throughout his life, since he has become united with something constant” (p. 16).It should have been Aristophanes’ turn to speak at this point, but he didn’t get to – because he had an attack of the hiccups! Aristophanes is a bit of a figure of fun throughout The Symposium -- Platonic payback, perhaps, for the satirical manner in which Aristophanes had portrayed Socrates in The Clouds as a cynical, unethical, “this-gun-for-hire” rhetorical mercenary. Eryximachus therefore takes over, and in his speech, the doctor seems interested chiefly in vindicating the medical profession and showing that only a doctor can truly solve the problem of Love: “The person who is most of all a doctor can distinguish…between right and wrong love. The good practitioner can bring about changes, so that the body acquires one kind of love instead of the other” (p. 19)Like the other participants in the symposium, Eryximachus emphasizes the power of Love: “Love as a whole has a great and mighty – or rather total – power….But it is the Love whose nature is expressed in good actions, marked by self-control and justice, at the human and divine level that has the greatest power and is the source of all our happiness. It enables us to associate, and be friends, with each other and with the gods, our superiors” (p. 21).Aristophanes, his fit of hiccupping presumably at an end, finally gets to give his speech, and it’s a doozy! The great comic playwright goes off into a long and frankly weird disquisition on how all human beings used to be two people combined as one: “Each one had four hands and the same number of legs, and two identical faces on a circular neck. They had one head for both the faces, which were turned in opposite directions, four ears, two sets of genitals” (p. 22). After some time, Zeus “cut humans into two, as people cut sorb-apples in half before they preserve them” (p. 23). In Aristophanes’ interpretation, “The reason” for human beings’ seeking each other in love “is that this is our original natural state and we used to be whole creatures: ‘love’ is the name for the desire and pursuit of wholeness” (p. 26).Really, Aristophanes? Really? As mentioned above, the picture of Aristophanes that emerges from The Symposium is comical and quite silly. His theory, for all that it could be said to look ahead to psychoanalyst Carl Jung’s ideas regarding the animus and the anima, draws an absurd picture. If Aristophanes is presenting this explanation comically, then he seems trivial in responding to a serious question; if he is being sincere – at a time when the pace of scientific discovery in Athens was calling into question many of the traditional mythology-based interpretations of natural phenomena and human behaviour drawn from the Olympian religion – then his ideas would have seemed silly, even to many Athenians who still followed the old faith.Agathon, as host of the party, finally gets the chance to put in his two drachmas, and his ideas are pleasant enough, but safe and conventional – so much so that it’s surprising to hear that the reason for the banquet and the symposium is that Agathon won the Great Dionysia theatrical competition for the year 416 B.C., defeating rivals like Aeschylus. In Agathon’s formulation, “Love…is the happiest, because he is the most beautiful and best. He is the most beautiful for this reason: first of all…he is the youngest of gods” (p. 29). Moreover, Love not only is “supreme in beauty and excellence” but also “is responsible for similar qualities in others” (p. 31).At last, it is Socrates’ turn. He starts off with his usual diffident questioning that reveals the shortcomings in his interlocutors’ thinking, and then gets to the point – through the odd expedient of a dialogue about Love that he recalls having had with “a woman from Mantinea called Diotima. She was wise about this and many other things” (p. 37). Diotima says of Love that “He is a great spirit, Socrates. Everything classed as a spirit falls between god and human” (p. 38). Love, it is ultimately suggested, is not a presence – the oldest and wisest and strongest god, the youngest and most energetic god – but rather a lack. Love is a search – like philosophy itself.It is at this point that Alcibiades crashes the party; and any student of classical Athens knows that Alcibiades is an ambiguous and troubling figure. From all accounts, he was an extraordinarily handsome and charming – and unscrupulous – individual. Alcibiades describes a sort of philosophical infatuation with Socrates, building from the metaphor of a statue of a divinity holding smaller statuettes – “I don’t know if any of you have seen the statues inside Socrates when he’s serious and is opened up. But I saw them once, and they seemed to me so divine, golden, so utterly beautiful and amazing, that – to put it briefly – I had to do whatever Socrates told me to” (p. 56). Alcibiades even describes an attempt to seduce Socrates! (Spoiler alert: Nothing happened.)Alcibiades may not be in the dialogue strictly as comic relief. The Symposium, written probably around 385 B.C., is set, as mentioned above, in 416 B.C., in the midst of the Peloponnesian War between Athens and Sparta. One year after the time in which this dialogue takes place, Alcibiades was among the leaders of the Athenian expedition against the Spartan colony of Syracuse on the island of Sicily – a military disaster that put Athens firmly on the road to ultimate defeat. Fearing that his political enemies would take revenge upon him for this defeat, Alcibiades turned traitor, and went over to the Spartan enemy. As always, Plato wants to remind the reader that philosophy is ultimately a very practical enterprise: the person who cannot think clearly, define terms precisely, reason from premises, is exactly the kind of person who is likely to behave unethically.The Symposium is one of Plato’s shorter dialogues; but for the careful reader, it can be one of the richer works from the first great writer of Western philosophy.
3478796517	«آن گاه ادامه داد و گفت که عشق نه زیبا است، و نه نیکو.از او پرسیدم که تو ای دیوتیما!آیا گمان میکنی که عشق بدی و زشتی است؟گفت:خاموش!مگر آنچه را که زیبا نیست باید زشت باشد؟مگر نمی دانی که میان دانایی و نادانی فاصله ای وجود دارد؟گفتم: آن فاصله کدام است؟گفت: باور درستی که نتواند منطق خود را اثبات کند، دانایی نیست.اما چون شناخت به حقیقت است، نادانی هم نیست و این فاصله ی میان دانایی و نادانی است.»
211586497	I'm not a philosophy or ancient history student, I picked up Plato's "Symposium" to challenge myself and see if I could understand it. The "Symposium" is a gathering of Greek thinkers who sit around and give speeches about love. Phaedrus talks about the greatness of love and how those who have it achieve great things. Pausanias talks of the merits of boy/man love where the boy pleasures the man while the man passes on his wisdom to the boy and that this is the best kind of love, not the lesser lover of procreation between man and woman. Eryximachus talks about how love is the source of all happiness. Aristophanes talks about how once upon a time there was no man or woman but a single human who had both sexes' characteristics. These creatures tried to scale the heavens and so Zeus cut them in half and ever since then man and woman have sought to create that single creature again. Socrates talks about his teacher Diotima and how she taught him that love was the only way human beings could be immortal. "The Symposium" is a short read not to be rushed as there are some fascinating ideas here. Not new ones though but ones that have influenced western culture and thought for centuries. Aristophanes' and Diotima's especially are ideas I've come across before but didn't know they originated in this text. It's also very pro-pederasty which I thought was amusing and can see why some people might have thought Plato was a closet homosexual. Those Greeks certainly were liberated though. It's an accesible and interesting little book though this Penguin Great Ideas edition features no notes, contextual history, introduction, glossary, reading list, etc which the Penguin Classics edition does so if you're studying this text I'd get that edition rather than this one.
5069382433	این کتاب، اولین کتاب از افلاطون بود که من رفتم سراغش. و واقعا حیرت کردم. فوق‌العاده بود. زبان نوشتاری افلاطون تو توصیف وقایع و اتفاقات، بی‌نظیره و خواننده رو تا آخر روایت‌هاش، به دنبال خودش می‌کشونه.کتاب با مقدمه‌ی کامل و به نسبت طولانی جناب فروغی شروع می‌شه. فروغی تو مقدمه تلاششو می‌کنه تا یه شمای کلی از جامعه‌ی اون زمان بهمون بده و درکنارش، به توصیف زندگی سقراط و افلاطون، و چگونگی شکل‌گیری کتاب‌های افلاطون می‌پردازه.کتاب‌های افلاطون، عموما حالت روایی دارن که به شرح مجالسی که سقراط توی اون‌ها حضور داشته می‌پردازه و البته که کتاب ضیافت، یکی از همین مجالسه که تو اون، موضوع عشق و تعریف اون، به بحث گذاشته می‌شه.با این‌که از قبل فکر می‌کردم باید نوشتار سنگینی داشته‌باشه کتاب، اما به عکس، کتاب با یه قلم شیوا و رسا نوشته‌شده که هر خواننده‌ای از پس خوندنش برمیاد.از دستش ندید😉
1371344385	The life of the party26 August 2015 You've really got to love the way Plato writes philosophy. Whereas everybody else simply writes what is in effect a work of non-fiction explaining some ideas, Plato seems to have the habit of inserting them into a story. Okay, he may not be the only philosopher that uses a story to convey his philosophical ideas, but he certainly stands out from his contemporaries, who simply wrote treatises. I've read a few of his works, and he always seems to structure it in a similar way, usually beginning with a conversation that has absolutely nothing to do with the ideas that he is trying to explore, but rather idle chit-chat. The Symposium stands out from his over works because the discussion occurs during a party (nice one Plato). In fact as I was reading this I could almost imagine the exact same scenario happening today. A group, who had had a pretty heavy night of drinking the night before decide to take it a little easier tonight, order a pizza, grab a couple of six packs of beer, and sit in the lounge room for a quiet one while still nursing the remnants of a hangover. Instead of turning on the television they decide to have a conversation. However, as the night wears on there is a knock at the door, and upon opening it we find the guy that we all know with two bottles of Jack Daniels in his hands who invites himself into the discussion. However this guy is hardly the philosophical type, and his discussion simply turns into how wonderful he thinks this other guy happens to be. Then there is another knock at the door, and as it happens he has invited all his friends over, and that quiet night ends up turning into another free-for all. Come morning, one of the guys from the original group picks himself off the couch, and in the haze of a hangover sees that three of the original group are still up and are talking about something completely different. However he is way too hungover to join in so he makes his way home. That's basically the plot of the Symposium. However Plato simply isn't telling a story about the party, he is exploring the idea of love. In fact it is suggested that what he is actually doing is recounting the discussion that occurred during an actual Symposium years before (and from the last couple of paragraphs it appears that the person who was telling the story was Aristodemus – whoever he happens to be – but he is telling it to another guy named Apollodorus, who I suspect is then telling Plato). This book is really interesting on so many levels. Not only are we allowed to listen into a discussion between Greeks about the nature of love, we are also given a pretty detailed glimpse of what went on during a symposium (or at least one that initially wasn't supposed to be a drunken free for all, but then again I'm sure we have all experienced something similar in our lives). Not only is it a work of philosophy, it is a work that gives us a very clear picture of the Ancient Athenian culture. Before I continue I must say one thing – Socrates is a freak. The book opens with Aristodemus meeting up with Socrates and then Socrates invites himself along to a party at Agathon's house. However when they arrive Socrates doesn't enter, he just stands outside staring into space. The ensuring conversation goes a little like this: AGATHON: Hey, weren't you with Socrates?ARISTODEMUS: Yeah, he's just outside.AGATHON: What's he doing out there, invite him in!ARISTODEMUS: I suspect he's contemplating the nature of the universe.AGATHON: There's plenty of time to do that, I'm going to bring him in.ARISTODEMUS: Don't bother. You know what he's like. He'll come in once he's had his revelation.…AGATHON: What! He's still out there! This is getting ridiculous, I'm bringing him inside!ARISTODEMUS: I wouldn't worry too much about him Agathon. You know how he exists in his own little world. Come to think of it, he sound's like that cat that stands at the open door, but really has no intention of going inside, or even staying outside. However, as I have indicated (and as many of you probably already know) this book is more than a story about what happened at Agathon's party (though I am sure many of us have had the experience where somebody we know comes along and gives us a detailed account of the party they went to the other night – though it is no where near as good as actually being there) but an exposition of love. Each of the main characters gives a dissertation of their idea of love, and as is expected, Socrates' dissertation is left until last. However I am sort of wandering whether the conversation occurred how it has been reported, or whether Plato is altering the events to suit his own purpose (I can't remember the intricate details, or the philosophical discussion I had at any of the parties I went to – all I can remember is talking about George Bush). For instance, we have Pausanius talk about how there are two kinds of love – physical and celestial. In a way there is the base love that we humans experience, a love that is expressed in physical actions (such as sex). However there is also spiritual love, that which is expressed in spiritual actions (such as self-sacrifice). I should pause here and state that my view of love unfortunately is tarnished by my Christian upbringing. I say that because the way I view love is that it exists entirely on the spiritual level. To me the love that Pausanius describes as physical love is actually little more than lust. However, Socrates does suggest that love is the desire to possess that which is beautiful, which does fall into the category that Pausanius describes. In my mind, love is not so much a feeling but rather expressed through actions such as self-sacrifice. Love is also unconditional – it doesn't play favourites, which means that it is impossible to love one person and no another (though due to our human nature, and our natural instinct to play favourites, unconditional love is a state that is very difficult to achieve). Now I wish to say a few things about my view on desire and sex. In my mind sex has two purposes – a means to stimulate the pleasure centres of the brain (much like a drug) and to procreate. The reason that it stimulates the pleasure centres is because it is a mechanism to encourage us to procreate. However we won't know about its pleasurable aspects unless we actually engage in it, which is why many of us develop this desire for members of the opposite sex. These desires exist to encourage us to have sex so that we might perpetuate the species. Note that I don't speak about 'falling in love' simply because I do not believe that these biological desires have anything to do with love – once again Hollywood is lying to us. Anyway, lets get on to Socrates: Socrates describes love as being the desire to possess that which is beautiful. In a way what he is suggesting is that if we possesses that which is beautiful then we are happy. In my mind Socrates is confusing love with happiness, but let us continue. He starts off by suggesting that this love begins on a physical level where we see a single person who we believe is beautiful and we desire to possess that person. This possession is fulfilled in the sexual act. However he suggests that to seek true beauty we simply cannot rest on one person, but we must begin to see the beauty in many people. As such our desire for that one person begins to diminish as we begin to see everybody else as being just as beautiful as this one person. However, he then takes the next step and suggests that we begin to move away from physical beauty to come to see the mental beauty (that is the intelligence) of individual people. As such we begin to lose interest in those whose beauty is not intellectual to focus on those who are. As such physical beauty begins to take a back seat. From there we move on to understand absolute beauty, namely that we can see beauty in everything without differentiation. This absolute is quite interesting – Plato rejects relativism. In his mind there must be an absolute because the universe simply cannot exist without one. A relative world is a world that is chaotic and has no form, but by looking at the world he can see that there is an absolute form, but he realises that everybody sees these forms differently. Thus his quest is the search for the absolute, and to move beyond relativism and the world of the opinion to try to understand and grasp the absolute truth. This the the goal of this book, to reject the relativism of physical beauty and to seek out the absolute of the celestial beauty. However, he does something really interesting – once Socrates finishes his speech in comes Alcibaides and brings the entire discussion back to reality. Not only does he interject into the discussion, he turns it completely on its head by telling everybody how wonderful he thinks Socrates is (he lusts after Socrates, but Socrates won't have a bar of it). Plato understands the real world, and this is what Alcibaides represents. While we may begin to ascend the ladder towards our grasp of absolute beauty, things will happen that will bring us crashing back down to reality. As I said, Socrates was a freak, which is why he was able to rebuff Alcibaides' advances.
7865616928	це виявилася ідеальна книга на відпустку. така собі гомоеротична пригода в дусі ґуаданьїно. дійсно, тусити треба так, щоб ваші з кумпелями посиденьки читали через тисячоріччя, і то з цілком обґрунтованою цікавістю. окремою насолодою було виловлювати культурні явища настільки всюдисущі, що вони ніби існували завжди: концепція «половинок», платонічна любов, андрогіни, пізнання через споглядання, scala amoris і піраміда маслоу(??), дискусійна модель пошуку істини й навіть фройдівська сексуальна сублімація, ідея еротичного потягу як енергії, яка може спрямовуватися в мистецтво, філософію (лібідо як рушійна сила). звідси ж він узяв ідею, що сексуальний потяг регресивний, нібито це прагнення «повернутися» до початкового стану — колишньої цілісності або навіть неорганічного стану («інстинкт смерті»).єдиний мінус — поза всяким сумнівом фахові, але дуже навʼязливі примітки пані уляни головач. таке агресивне навʼязування власної інтерпретації (релігійно зумовленої, бо це видання уку), що аж школа згадалася. далі невеличкий конспект: федр- ерос — найстарший і наймогутніший бог.- він робить людей хоробрими й доброчесними: заради коханого ти готовий на подвиги.павсаній- низька (тілесна) любов (афродіта посполита) — шукає лише насолоди.- висока (духовна) (афродіта небесна) — спрямована на душу, на виховання доброчесності.- важлива не сама пристрасть, а те, як її скеровують, бо вчинки не бувають хороші чи погані самі собою, важить лиш спосіб у який вони чиняться. - закоханим можна і простимо все. еріксімах (лікар)- дивиться на любов як на космічний принцип гармонії: потрібен і низький, і високий ерос, має бути згода між ними. - це стосується природи, музики, медицини, гімнастики й усього взагалі. арістофан (комедіограф)- розповідає міф про андрогінів: колись люди були подвійні (чоловік-чоловік, жінка-жінка, чоловік-жінка). зевс розщепив їх, бо засцяв, такі то були повноцінні істоти, і тепер кожне шукає свою половинку, прагнучи відтворити колишню досконалість.- ерос — це прагнення віднайти втрачену цілісність.агатон (трагедіограф, господар бенкету)- ерос — це молодість, краса, м’якість, джерело доброчесності.- він надихає людей на шляхетні вчинки.- стилістично гарна промова, яку сократ критикує за брак глибини.сократ (передає слова жриці діотими)- ерос — не бог, а посередник між людьми й богами.- його сутність — прагнення до вічного і прекрасного.- діотима описує «сходи любові»: від тілесної краси — до любові до всіх тіл — до краси душ — до науки — і нарешті до любові самої ідеї краси і любові. - ероса зачали на дн афродіти, народився від двох батьків — пороса (богатства) й пенії (убогості). він завжди посередині. - боги не люблять, бо вони досконалі й самодостатні. у них немає жодної нестачі. а без нестачі немає й любові. людина ж любить, бо їй завжди чогось бракує. і водночас у неї є сила намагатися цей брак заповнити. тому ми прагнемо породжувати нове: дітей, ідеї, мистецтво, меми. любов — це рух між браком і сповненням. вона ніколи не досягає остаточної цілі й цілісності, але завжди штовхає нас вперед.- діотима — єдина жінка в книзі. й описана вона на дивно нормально, хоч і позбавлена можливості промовляти напряму. алківіад (п’яний завалюється наприкінці)- не говорить про любов узагалі, а вихваляє Сократа. - порівнює його з силеном (неприваблива оболонка, але всередині — скарб). - ниє, що сократ не схотів із ним переспати. у кінці всі нализуються, включаючи сократа, але він «вміє пити», як ніхто, тож, поки всі гикають, він каже, шо поет має однаково добре втяти і трагедію, і комедію. fin
2050508564	Αγαπώ.
5154872794	《من بر آن شدم که دیگران را نیز با این باور و عقیده موافق سازم که طبیعت ناپدیدار ما، جز با دستیاری عشق، به مرتبه‌ی جاودانگی ارتقا و اتصال پیدا نخواهد کرد.》رساله‌ی زیبای ضیافت، یا سخنی در خصوص عشق؛ در قالب یک مهمانی نوشته شده که سقراط و حکمای یونان جمع شده‌اند و خدای اروس(عشق) را ستایش میکنند و نظرشان را درمورد عشق و عاشقی می‌گویند.یه روزه خوندمش و باید بگم خیلی برام لذت بخش بود، از نوشتار دلنشین افلاطون تا مباحث و اعتقادات کهن جذاب یونانی درمورد عشق و میل به عاشقی...و با وجود اینکه تو دانشگاه درمورد نظریه‌ی نیمه‌ی گمشده‌‌ی آریستوفان که تو این کتاب گفته شده شنیده بودم ولی بازم برام خیلی جالب بود و موقع خوندنش تا نیشم تا بناگوش باز بود:💫انسانها در آغاز سه نوع بودند؛جنس زنجنس مردجنس سوم (که هم خاصیت مرد و هم زن را داشت)هر جنس، چهار دست و چهار پا داشت و دو صورت در پشت و روی کله اش داشت و دو آلت و چهار گوش. انسانها در آن زمان بسی قدرتمند شده بودند و این غرور آنقدر بالا گرفت که در صدد یورش برای حذف خدایان برآمدند.با افزایش سرکشی انسان ها، زئوس و دیگر خدایان کنار هم جمع شدند تا برای اینکه مقابل انسانها بایستند، راهی پیدا کنند. از سویی نمیشد همه انسانها را کشت. زیرا انسانها به درگاه خدایان قربانی های بسیار می کردند و از طرفی هم خدایان، گستاخیِ انسان را نمی تافتند. سرانجام زئوس به بقیه خدایان گفت: باید این انسان را ضعیف کنیم تا هم زنده بماند (برای اینکه خدایان را بپرستند و قربانی کنند) و در عین حال هم گستاخ نباشد.زئوس گفت: برای کاستن از قدرت انسانها، باید آنها را به دو نیمه کنیم. سپس شروع کرد و آدمیان را از وسط به دو نیمه کرد و بدین صورت انسان های نخستین که دو نیم شده بودند، دنبال نیمه دیگر خود بودند و چون به او می رسیدند، او را با دو دست سخت در بغل میگرفتند تا یکی شوند، اما چنین نمی‌شد.نیمه انسانها که چنین دیدند، اعتصاب کردند و بر آن شدند تا بدون دیگری هیچ نکنند و کم‌کم می‌مردند و دیگری را در آغوش می‌گرفتند تا به او ملحق شوند.زئوس که این وضع را دید دلش نرم شد و تدبیری کرد. او آلات تناسلی دو نیمه را بسوی جلو گردانید تا آن دو نیمه چون بهم ملحق گردند، تلذذ کنند و از یکدیگر بهرمند شوند. اینگونه بود که عشق متبادلی بشر ایجاد شد و بشر با رسیدن به نیمه خودش تسکین می‌گیرد و نمیخواهد دمی از او جدا شود، اما خودش دلیل این طلب را نمی‌داند. 💫
7862101590	Conversations about love, life & philosophy. Insight into the dinner conversation for some of the greatest thinkers of our time. I felt like a fly on the wall reading this. Surprisingly easy to follow, a great introduction to philosophy, especially considering the subject matter is something everyone has felt in one way or another.
2056362431	I've owned this slim volume for years and been vaguely fearful of picking it up, due to the nature of its contents. Inside, Plato uses his own voice to retell the discourses between Socrates and his friends, on innumerable subjects. It was immediately evident that is one of the world's most beloved classics for a reason. The philosophical focus was thought-provoking, which I had anticipated, but this required the reader to find much beauty within its content too, which I greatly appreciated.
2073496251	Πρώτο γεννήθηκε το Χάος, ύστερα πλατύστηθη η Γη και ακολούθησε ο Ερωτας πρώτος κι αρχαιότερος των θεών ίσως και γι’ αυτό δεν υπάρχουν ούτε κι αναφέρονται οι γονείς του, εκτός κι αν είναι αυτοί ακριβώς: Το Χάος κι η θεμέλια Γη.Διά στόματος Παυσανία:Αφού είναι δύο οι Αφροδίτες πρέπει να είναι δύο κι οι Έρωτες. Ένας αυτός που συμπράττει με τη λίμπιντο, ο Πάνδημος κι άλλος εκείνος που συντάσσεται με το πνεύμα, ο Ουράνιος.Νομίζω πως η διάκριση εραστή με ερωμένου είναι αυτή: εραστής είναι εκείνος που κάνει την κίνηση, την επιλογή προς κάποιον κι ερωμένος εκείνος που αποδέχεται, αλλά μπορεί και να προσφέρεται όταν τον ενδιαφέρει κάποιος επειδή είναι άξιος να του ανοίξει το πνεύμα.Δεν υπάρχει ούτε ντροπή, ούτε ατολμία στον έρωτα. Ο ερωτευμένος θέλει να εξυψώνεται στα μάτια του ανθρώπου του ή έστω να μην πέφτει και καμιά πράξη ‘’υποτέλειας’’ δε νοείται ως τέτοια, αφού γίνεται άδολα, από ψυχής και μ’ ευχαρίστηση.Μα ο έρωτας μπορεί να είναι πολύ περισσότερα απ’ το βέλος προς τον άλλο άνθρωπο, μπορεί να είναι για οποιοδήποτε πλάσμα που αναπνέει, όσο και για την ίδια τη ζωή, τέτοιος που θα προσπαθεί να φέρει σε ομόνοια την αρρώστια με την υγεία, το ζεστό με το κρύο. Ο έρωτας μπορεί να είναι το πάθος για τη μουσική, την τέχνη.Μια πολύ σημαντική αποστροφή τοποθετημένη στο στόμα του Ερυξίμαχου είναι αυτή: η αρμονία δε βρίσκεται στα αντίθετα αλλά στο αποτέλεσμα της σύζευξης τους, σ’ εκείνο που εξομαλύνει, στη συνήχηση ως συμφωνίας αντιθέτων και γι’ αυτό θεωρεί τη Μουσική, την επιστήμη όλων των ερωτικών φαινομένων.Ο Αριστοφάνης αναγνωρίζει τον έρωτα μόνο σ’ εκείνους που θα δεχόντουσαν αν εμφανιζόταν μπροστά τους ο Ήφαιστος κι έλεγε να τους λιώσει και να τους ξαναφυσήξει μαζί ως ένα, θα δέχονταν. Ένωση, συγχώνευση, μαζί να ζουν, ταυτόχρονα και να πεθάνουν. Και όμως η απάντηση σ’ αυτό, αν δεν ξέραμε πως ο Ήφαιστος δε θα εμφανιστεί δεν είναι ούτε απλή, ούτε εύκολη, ειδικά στη δική μας εποχή που συχνά νομίζουμε μόνο, ότι είμαστε ερωτευμένοι. Μα για τον Αριστοφάνη, ο έρωτας είναι μια τέλεια συνθηκολόγηση, αφού συμβιβαζόμαστε με το ομοιότερο στην αδελφή ψυχή μας, που τόσο δύσκολο είναι να βρούμε στον κόσμο.Για τον Αγάθωνα, ο έρωτας είναι εκείνος που απορροφά τις ιδιότητες των θεών, τις κάνει κτήμα του και ως σκεύος τις μεταδίδει στους ανθρώπους, ώστε ώντας ερωτευμένοι να γίνονται όμορφοι, σοφότεροι, δημιουργικοί, μα και στα ίδια τα δικά τους καλύτεροι, με μια ικανότητα σε μεγαλύτερα άλματα για το τέλειο.Αυτές είναι σκέψεις που έκανα διαβάζοντας τα εγκώμια του έρωτα απ’ το Φαίδρο, τον Παυσανία, τον Αριστοφάνη, τον Ερυξίμαχο, τον Αγάθωνα και για να είμαι ειλικρινής είχα απογοητευτεί. Ναι μεν ειπωμένα όταν ειπώθηκαν και όπως ειπώθηκαν έχει τη σημασία τους και επίσης μου άρεσε η διαδικασία που χρειάστηκε να ακολουθήσω για να ερμηνεύσω τα λόγια τους, αλλά δεν ήταν αυτό που αναζητούσα και έβλεπα μια αδυναμία σε αυτό που περιέγραφαν. Αυτή ακριβώς την αδυναμία που δεν συνειδητοποιούσα ακριβώς τη φύση τους, την εντόπισε ο Σωκράτης που με τη μέθοδο που ακολουθούσε των μαιευτικών ερωτήσεων, του διαλόγου και λιγότερο σε αυτό το κείμενο της ειρωνείας κατέληξε πως η αδυναμία αυτή, η κρυμμένη αλήθεια ήταν πως οι προηγούμενοι αντιλαμβάνονταν τις λέξεις με τις οποίες απαντούσαν σε λέξεις, αλλά όχι την ουσία, δηλαδή εγκωμίασαν τον έρωτα ως αντικείμενο του εαυτού του κι όχι ως προς το ποιος είναι, ποια είναι η φύση του. Εδώ όμως ο Σωκράτης κάνει κάτι διαφορετικό, αντί να παραμείνει εμμονικά στη μαιευτική άγνοια, τη ντύνεται. Δηλαδή παρουσιάζει τον εαυτό του ως ίδιο με τους συνομιλητές του στο παρελθόν, σε διάλογο που είχε με τη σοφή Διοτίμα, την οποία βάζει να εφαρμόζει τη δική του μέθοδο, παρότι την αποτυπώνει περισσότερο διαλλακτική και καταλήγουν πως ο έρωτας είναι παιδί που απ’ ανάγκη γέννησε η Πενία τεκνοποιώντας με πρόθεση απ’ τον Πόρο χωρίς τη δική του γνώση ή συγκατάθεση. Δεν είναι θεός, αλλά δαιμόνιο, σκεύος που αποκαθιστά την επικοινωνία ανάμεσα σ’ εκείνον που δεν έχει και σ’ εκείνον που κατέχει, στον άνθρωπο και το θεό. Είναι η ολοκλήρωση του άσκημου που μέσα από την γέννηση του ωραίου, κάνει τον κόσμο να γυρίζει και να ποθεί τη διαιώνιση στην κατάσταση του ωραίου. Ακολουθεί ως ατραξιόν ο μεθυσμένος Αλκιβιάδης που εγκωμιάζει τον Σωκράτη ως ερωτευμένος, με έρωτα πανδημικό και ουράνιο προσδίδοντας χαρακτηριστικά στον Εραστή ώστε η ανάπτυξη της θεωρίας για τον έρωτα, τα αντικείμενα και τη φύση του να αποκτήσει πλήρη υπόσταση. Αλλά για να είμαι ειλικρινής, είχα ήδη κουραστεί και το συμπέρασμα στο οποίο κατέληξα ήταν αυτό: πως ο εραστής δεν πρέπει να τα δίνει όλα, αλλά να αποκαλύπτεται σιγά σιγά και να μη δίνει πάντοτε το συνθετικό για τη γέννηση του ωραίου, ώστε να υπάρχει διάρκεια και μπρίο.Με λίγα λόγια, χωρίς την παρουσία του Σωκράτη και τη μέθοδο που ακολούθησε, τη μοναδική όαση μέσα σ’ αυτό το κείμενο θα είχα αυταναφλεγεί!Τέλος, η επιμέλεια ήταν σχετικά καλή και το αντίτυπο που διάβασα ήταν των εκδόσεων Κάκτος.3
1707284150	ضیافت، مهمانی یا سومپوسیون یکی از مهمترین دیالوگ‌هایافلاطون است. موضوع این دیالوگ اروس یا عشق است و این اثر مهمترین اثر افلاطون در زمینهٔ عشق می‌باشد. اثر دیگر افلاطون دربارهٔ عشق که با ضیافت هم در پیوند است فایدروس می‌باشد. این دیالوگ از دیالوگ‌های سقراطی افلاطون می‌باشد که در آنها سقراط چهرهٔ اول آن است. کتاب ضیافت به گونهٔ روایتی‌است که در بخشی از آن خواننده شاهد گفتگوی بازیگران آن با یکدیگر است.
813202059	il maschio era in origine progenie del sole, la femmina della terra, e il genere partecipe di entrambi era progenie della luna, poiché anche la luna partecipa del sole e della terra … È una notte ateniese, sul finire del quinto secolo avanti Cristo, un uomo sta salendo verso la città, quando viene così apostrofato: «O Falereo, detto Apollodoro, non vuoi attendermi?». Apollodoro, ormai da tre anni discepolo di Socrate, si ferma ad aspettarlo. E quello: «Sai, Apollodoro, che proprio ora stavo cercandoti? Voglio notizie dettagliate sull’incontro di Agatone, Socrate e Alcibiade , e degli altri che furono presenti in quell’occasione al banchetto: vorrei sapere quali furono i loro discorsi d’amore.». I due riprendono il cammino e Apollodoro, che non aveva partecipato all’incontro, racconta ciò che aveva saputo da Aristodemo … Atene, Gamelione 416 a.C. Siamo a casa di Agatone. Il poeta ha offerto ad alcuni amici un banchetto per festeggiare la sua vittoria negli agoni delle Lenee. Tra gli invitati spicca la figura di Socrate. Con lui il discepolo Aristodemo, il commediografo Aristofane, il medico Erissimaco, e poi Fedro e il retore Pausania. Erissimaco esorta i convitati a tenere un discorso su Eros. A turno, ognuno di loro tesserà l’elogio del dio dell’amore. Socrate parlerà per ultimo e, nel raccontare delle imperfezioni di Eros, dimostrerà che da parte degli uomini (esseri imperfetti) la ricerca dell’amore è simile alla ricerca della conoscenza da parte dei filosofi. «Nessuno degli dèi ama la sapienza, né desidera diventare sapiente, poiché lo è già; se poi c’è qualcun altro ad essere sapiente, neppure costui ama la sapienza. D’altro canto, nemmeno gli ignoranti amano la sapienza, né desiderano diventare sapienti. Proprio in questo, difatti, l’ignoranza è insopportabile, nel credere, da parte di chi non è bello né eccellente, e neppure saggio, di essere adeguatamente dotato. Chi non ritiene di essere privo, dunque, non desidera ciò di cui non crede di aver bisogno. […] La sapienza fa parte senza dubbio di ciò che vi è di più bello, ed Eros, dal canto suo, è amore a riguardo della bellezza, cosicché necessariamente Eros sarà amante della sapienza, e, essendo amante della sapienza, sarà nel mezzo tra il sapiente e l’ignorante.». Il mattino dopo, Aristofane, nel corso del suo discorso su Eros, racconterà degli uomini, dei loro propositi arroganti e di Zeus che, dopo faticose riflessioni … «Ho un mezzo, credo, perché gli uomini possano esistere, eppure abbandonino la sfrenatezza, una volta divenuti più deboli. Ora infatti» disse «taglierò ciascuno di loro in due, ed essi da un lato saranno più deboli, e d’altro lato saranno al tempo stesso più utili a noi, per l’accrescersi del loro numero; e cammineranno eretti, su due gambe.» Ciò detto, tagliò gli uomini in due.Ma ora vogliate scusarmi, pressanti impegni familiari incombono. Per l’ineludibile spesa all’Esselunga, dovrò riunirmi alla mia dolce metà…
2813947736	دیدن روی تو را دیده جان بین بایدوین کجا مرتبه چشم جهان بین من استضيافت (سمپوزيوم) اثر سترگ افلاطون مربوط به دوره سوم عمر فلسفي (دوره پختگي فلسفه او) مي باشد. وايتهد كه خود از فيلسوفان بزرگ قرن 20 است، افلاطون را بزرگترين فيلسوف همه اعصار مي داند كه مابقي فلاسفه بر مكتب او حاشيه زده اند.در اين اثر، افلاطون، سعي مي كند كه در قالب ديالكتيك و گفتگو از زبان شخصيتهاي داستانش، پديدار عشق را، در طي يك مسير نمايش دهد. فهم عشق افلاطوني پيوند عميقي بادرك نظريه معرفت شناسي پديدارشناسانه افلاطوني دارد. از نظر افلاطون 1- معرفت حقيقي قابل دستيابي است و اين معرفت بايد خطاناپذير و بدون تغيّر باشد. با اين تعريف، افلاطون معتقد بود كه امور جزئي نمي توانند متعلق شناخت قرار بگيرند، چرا كه مدام در حال تغيير و زوال هستند. اعتقاد به واقعيتي به نام مُثُل به دليل كلي بودن و لا يتغير بودن، از اينجا سرچشمه گرفته است.2- حس نمي تواند ابزار شناخت باشد، چرا كه ابزار حس، ضمن اينكه خطاي ساختاري دارد توانايي شناخت امور كلي را ندارد. در واقع نمي توان كليات را با حس درك كرد، در حالي كه عقل به عنوان ابزار ديگر شناخت، اين قابليت را دارد.3- معرفت در ابتدا يك حقيقت مشخص نيست بلكه واقعيتي است كه در طي يك مسير ديالكتيكي بر انسان پديدار مي شود بدين صورت كه، شناخت يا معرفت ابتدا بوسيله حس صورت مي پذيرد. ولي شناخت حسي كامل نيست و تا واقعيت فاصله بسياري دارد. در مرحله بعد انسان از شناخت حسي فاصله مي گيرد و به شناخت عقلي و درك اوليه كليات مي رسد. در اين مرحله منظور عقليست كه در ادبيات فلسفي و عرفاني ايراي ما، عقل جزيي (رَشنال) و ديد جهان بين ناميده مي شود و هنوز تا واقعيت فاصله زيادي دارد. در مرحله بعد انسان از مرحله عقل جزيي فراتر مي رود و به عقل شهودي و معرفت حقيقي (اينتِلكت) يا همان ديده جان بين مي رسد.پديدار شناسي ديالكتيكي فهم عشق از نظر افلاطون نيز در همين راستا، در قالب خطابه هاي شخصيتهاي داستان به صورت زير نمايان مي شود. در واقع افلاطون، سير درك عشق، از مفهومي جزيي و فيزيكي به امري كلي و انتزاعي را تصوير مي كند.1- عشق زيبايي يك بدن است (فايدروس)2- عشق علاوه بر زيبايي بدن به زيبايي روح و نفس هم ارتباط دارد. (پوزانیاس )3- براي زيبايي روح، به جامعه زيبا نياز است. پس عشق به رسوم و قوانینِ زیبا و متعادل كننده جامعه اتصال پيدا مي كند. در واقع زيبايي يك بدن در مقابل زيبايي جامعه و اجتماع كم اهميت مي شود. (اروکسیماخوس)4- زيبايي جامعه وقتي اتفاق مي افتد كه آن جامعه يكپارجه و در يك راستا اداره شود. پس كيفيت يكپارچگي و وحدت است كه عشق را مي سازد و جامعه را قدرتمند مي كند. اين مفهوم در قالب داستان اسطوره اي نابودن شدن جنس سوم انساني ("نر ماده" علاوه بر نر و ماده) توسط خداي خدايان زئوس بيان مي شود. (آریستوفانس)5- يكپارچكي و وحدت در يك جامعه نتيجه تدبير درست منبَعِث از خير و نيكي و زيبايي است و عشق در واقع همان زيبايي، خير و نيكي است. (آگاتون)6- درك خير و نيكي و زيبايي كه به جامعه وحدت بخشيده و جامعه اي با رسوم و قوانين زيبا و متعادل ايجاد مي كند از شناخت و معرفت و دانش ريشه مي گيرد. پس عشق همان معرفت و دانش است. (سقراط)7- معرفت و دانش خود نتيجه منبع لايزال ازلي و ابدي كه انسان را به جاودانگي مي رساند و عشق حقيقي هموست. (ديو تيما)به نقل از كتابسپس نوبت به سخنرانی سقراط در باره عشق رسید. سقراط پس از ذکر مطالبی مقدماتی در باره عشق به اینجا می رسد که می خواهم داستانی را از زبان یک زن به نام دیوتیما که در باره عشق از او شنیدم، برایتان بیان کنم. دیوتیما کاهنه ای بود فضیلت مند و در باره عشق و این گونه مسائل، فردی بود صاحب نظر و بسیار روشن... آن زن خردمند به من گفت: عشق نه نیک است و نه زیبا و واسطه میان خدایان و آدمیان است...... ای سقراط عزیز! اینها کوچک ترین رموز عشق بود که با تو در میان نهادم تا آگاه شوی...به هر حال من کوشش خواهم کرد که راه را بر تو بنمایانم. اگر می توانی در پی من بیا. کسی که بخواهد راه عشق را درست بپیماید، باید در دوران جوانی به زیباچهره ای دل بندد. و اگر راهبرش راه درست را به او نشان داده باشد، فقط دل به یک زیباروی می بندد و این دل بستگی اندیشه خوب و زیبا برای وی پدید می آورد و وقتی که چنین شد، آنگاه پی خواهد برد که زیبایی یک بدن، همانند زیبایی بدن های دیگر است و از این رو به طور کلی دلباخته تنها یک بدن می گردد. با پدیدار شدن چنین شناختی، او عاشق همه بدن های زیبا خواهد شد و از شور و شوق شدید فقط به یک بدن دست خواهد کشید. پس از این مرحله، متوجه زیبایی روح خواهد شد و آن را به مرتب بالاتر از زیبایی بدن خواهد شمرد و هنگامی که به مرحله بالاتر می رسد درک می کند که زیبایی جان بالاتر از زیبایی بدن است و در نتیجه، اگر به روحی با فضیلت و پرهیزکار که از زیبایی رخسار بهره اش کمتر باشد برخورد نمود، به او دل می بندد و عشقش را به دل می گیرد و پیوسته در اندیشه او خواهد بود و افکار اندیشه های را می جوید و می آفریند که بتواند آن را بهتر و کاملتر سازد و بدین گونه به مقامی می رسد که بتواند زیبایی را در قوانین و اجتماعات و اخلاقیات و تدبیر کشورداری، جای دهد وخوشی ویگانگی را که در بین اینهاست باز می شناسد و زیبایی بدنی را کوچک و حقیر می شمارد.اینجاست که بر او روشن می گردد که زیبایی یک فرد در برابر زیبایی اجتماع بسی کم ارزش است ودر این مرحله متوجه شناخت آنها خواهد گردید.تا زیبایی آنها را نیز رویت کند و چون به این ترتیب چشمش به مظاهر متعدد زیبایی گشوده شود دیگر پایبند یک مظهر واحد نخواهد شد بلکه میان دریای مواج زیبایی می راند ودر آنجا به پیرامون خود نظر می افکند واز عشق بی پایان به حکمت و دانش روی می آورد و سخنان و اندیشه های زیبا می آفریند.کسی که در عشق تا این مرحله تربیت یافت و شاگردی مکتب عشق را حاصل کرد و مراحل مختلف زییایی را ادراک کرد و به پایان راه خود رسید، ناگهان طبیعتی بر او آشکار می شود که زیبایی اش بی پایان است و این غایت و سرانجام همه کوشش هاست و این همان زیبایی خارق العاده ای است که او به خاطر آن این همه مشقت و سختی را بر خود هموار ساخت و این زیبایی، جاودانه است. نه به وجود می آید و نه فانی می شود. ... زیبایی او مطلق است و بی نظیر و جاودانه... این اوست که در جرگه دوستان خدایان درمی آید و زندگی ابدی و جاودانه به دست می آورد. این است آن زندگانی ازلی که سزاوار نوع بشر است؛ یعنی زندگی سعادتمندانه ای که در آن عشق و زیبایی مطلق را مشاهده کنی...کاش ما را دیده حقیقت بین بود تا بدیدن این زیبایی ها موفق می شدیم و چشمان ما به دیدن آن زیبایی در عین صفا و پاکیزگی از هر گونه رنگ و نقش فناپذیر و رو به زوال یعنی خود آن زیبایی خدایی باز می شد و شگفتی آن ما را در خود می گرفت .واین است آن زندگی ازلی که سزاوار نوع بشر است .یعنی زندگی سعادتمندانه ای که در آن عشق و زیبایی مطلق را مشاهده کنی .از همگی شما می خواهم که عشق را دریابید و آن را شریف دانسته وگرامی بدارید.
4491942974	— 4.5 starsbest moments include:— socrates arriving at dinner late because he wanted to casually stare into space (which he apparently does all the time)— eryximachus randomly giving aristophanes advice on how to cure hiccups— alcibiades crashing the dinner out of nowhere (super drunk, btw) and proceeding to insult and complain about socrates for like 5 pages straight
4340238144	I was like 'hmm this is not too hard to understand ' and then Socrates started speaking 💀
603810719	Some useful tips on curing hiccups.
2432864993	کتاب جالبی بود اما برای من تا حدودی خسته‌کننده بود. توش نظریات آدم‌های مختلف توی شب‌نشینی‌ای در حضور سقراط در باب عشق بیان می‌شد و آخر‌اش سقراط میاد کاسه کوزه‌ها رو می‌شکنه و درباره عشق و زیبایی حرف می‌زنه و آخرش هم مجلس به ابتذال کشیده می‌شه و ماجرا تموم.جالبی‌ش برداشت یونانی‌های اون زمان از زیبایی و جذب مرد‌ها به پسرهای جوون و زیبا بود.انگار روابطی عاشق و معشوق‌گون بین مردها طبیعی بوده.یه‌جاش می‌گن خب، دیشب خیلی مست ‌کردیم امشب رو کم مِی بزنیم و به‌جاش هرکی نظرشو درباره عشق بگه و ماجرا اینطوری شروع می‌شه :))
1869967827	به نظرم نوشتن واسه افلاطون،این مرد بزرگ واقعا سخته ولی دلم نمياد واسه همچين کتاب بی نظیری چیزی ننویسم!اول که کتاب و خریدم میترسیدم برم سراغش چون فکر میکردم يه متن خیلی سنگین مثل جمهور در انتظارمه واسه همین خوندشو همش عقب مینداختم تا اینکه بالاخره يه هفته پیش طلسم و شکستم و شروع کردم به خوندنش!و قبل از اینکه برم سراغ خود کتاب قسمت دیباچه رو خوندم که حقیقتا بسیار ماهرانه و روون نوشته شده بود که به همین خاطر هم از آقای محمد علی فروغی ممنون هستم.ترجمه و ویراستاری خود کتاب هم همچنین خیلی روون و بی غلط بود.و اما خود کتاب! حقیقتش همیشه میخوندم که آثار افلاطون به غیر از نظریات فلسفی که توشون گفته از شاهکار های ادبی هم محسوب ميشن و هيچوقت باور نمیکردم این حرفو تا رسیدم به این کتاب و تازه فهمیدم همه چی ميگفتن! روند داستانی زیبا و کوتاه که تو رو وادار به ادامه کتاب میکنه و توصیف های خیلی خوب از صحنه مثل اینکه داری تئاتر میبینی. و بیاید افسانه ها و اسطوره های بی نظیری هم که در وسط داستان گنجونده رو فراموش نکنیم چرا که قطعا از قسمت های خیلی لذت بخش کتاب بود!يه چيز ديگه که خیلیییی واسم جالب بود يه سری از نظریات افلاطون درباره عشق بود که میبینم چقدر از زمان خودش جلو تر بوده! در واقع در آخر های کتاب تونستم شباهت های بسیار زیادی بین نظریه های خودش و نظریه های شوپنهاور در مورد عشق پیدا کنم! در آخر بگم که خیلی زیاد از خوندن این کتاب که حقیقتا گنجی بود از حدود ۲۴۰۰ پیش لذت بردم و به همه خوندشو،حتا شده یک بار( که من فکر میکنم حقیقتا يک بار واسه این کتاب کم باشه!) پیشنهاد میکنم!
580842049	ما وجود یک موجود زنده ای را از کودکی تا پیری همیشه به یک نام می خوانیم و آن ها را همانند یکدیگر می شماریم.در حالی که او هرگز همان نیست که پیش از آن بوده است. بلکه مدام در حال تغییر و دگرسانی است. یعنی مو گوشت و استخوان و خون و خلاصه همه ی اعضای بدنش دائماً در حال تغییر و دگرگونی است و این تغییر و دگرسانی، نه تنها در بدن، بلکه در روان ما نیز جاری و ساری است. یعنی در بدن ما مدام کار فرسودگی و رویش دوباره ادامه دارد و همچنین در جان و روان ما.در همه ی وجود ما حتی اخلاق و آرزوها و پندارها و شادی ها و آلام و بیم و امیدهای ما. هیچ کدام آن نیستند که در گذشته بودندو مدام دستخوش تغییر و دگرسانی هستند و پیوسته جای خود را به چیزهای تازه می دهند.یکی به وجود می آید و دیگری از بین می رود و شگفت تر از همه اینکه حتی شناخت هایمان نیز هرگز به یک حال پایدار باقی نمی مانیم و هنگامی که گمان می کنیم درباره ی یک مطلب به اندیشه فرو می رویم، در همان لحظه آگاهیم که شناخت ما از بین رفته است. زیرا فراموشی در واقع از بین رفتن شناسایی است و از راه یادآوری، شناخت تازه ای به جای آنکه از بین رفته است، در ما ایجاد می شود؛ به نحوی که به نظرمان چنان می رسد که این شناسایی جدید همان شناسایی گذشته است.
794512596	And Agathon said, It is probable, Socrates, that I knew nothing of what I had said.And yet spoke you beautifully, Agathon, he said. Back in the late 1990s a cowpunk band named The Meat Purveyors had a song, Why Does There Have To Be A Morning After? It detailed stumbling around in the cruel light of day, sipping on backwash beer from the night before and attempting to reconstruct what at best remains a blur.The event depicted here is a hungover quest for certainty. The old hands in Athens have been tippling. Socrates is invited to the day after buffet. The Symposium attempts to explore the Praise for Love which occupies such a crucial yet chaotic corner of our earthly ways. There is ceremonial hemming-and-hawing about the sublime and then Socrates steps into the fray. All is vanity, Love is a bastard child of Poverty: the attempts at the Ininite and Eternal only reflect poorly on our scrawny and fleeting tenure.
861116994	چهار پنج سالی از خوندن این کتاب میگذره. یادمه وقتی خوندمش اونقدر خوب بود که گفتم همۀ کتابهای دیگۀ افلاطون رو میخونم. و حتی چندتاییشون رو هم خریدم. ولی خب، وقت نشده هنوز اما سر تصمیمم هستم!این کتاب واقعاً اندیشه بخش و تأمل برانگیزه. دوست داشتم توی اون ضیافت می بودم و افلاطون رو موقع ادای اون جملات میدیدم و حتی خودم هم سؤالهایی میپرسیدم... به نظرم بهترین ایده ها رو درمورد مسائلی مثل عشق که به اندازۀ عمر بشر موضوع بحث قرار گرفته ن، ارائه میده
6599253345	این کتاب حالا دیگه توی قلبم جا داره .چطور ممکنه انقدر به دل بشینه .مجموعه ای از مورد علاقه هام (نمایشنامه و فلسفه و تئاتر و یونان...)کل کتاب به زیبایی نوشته شده ولی یکی از قسمت های مورد علاقه ام اونجایی که راجع به نیمه انسان ها حرف میزنه(اصلا دلم نمیخواد اسپویل کنم وگرنه کل کتاب رو باید اینجا تعریف میکردم )به نظرم قراره چندین بار دیگه هم بخونمش
3082001525	перше що скажу:на ґудрідс в кількість сторінок не внесено кількість сторінок передмови. а там близько 50. також не вистачало другого ляссе. приміток багато і відходити від тексту потрібно часто. та саме виконання українського видання чудове. суперобкладинка з цупкого паперу. дизайн чудовий. тиснення на корінці і приємний колір.гарнітура також сподобалася. стосовно самого тексту. було цікаво пригадати і доповнити історії про створення людей, про Ероса і багатьох інших богів.Розмови про любов, звідки і чому вона виникає. Що таке пристрасть і чому вона існує. Текст плавний і читається легко. Навіть з примітками.мені сподобалося.
2093629468	In one of those strange literary coincidences this short treatise on Love by Plato has been referenced this past week in my reading of Barth’s The Friday Book and Hilton Als’s White Girls. And for completely different reasons. I haven’t plunged head-first into White Girls just yet, so this is a great opportunity to pause and catch up on a work of antiquity.My copy of The Symposium is translated from the Greek by Percy Bysshe Shelley - he titles the work The Banquet of Plato rather than the more common title used today. John Barth loves this work because he loves literature with telescoping frames of stories (One Thousand and One Nights is by far his favorite work - he admits to having the biggest lit crush possible on Scheherazade, his Muse). In this short piece, we have the general framework story of Apollodorus and Friend on a journey; Friend implores Apollodorus to tell him a story about the great Socrates that he recently overheard. Apollodorus confesses that his story is second hand from his other friend Aristodemus, and so Apollodorus unfurls the tale as told to him by Aristodemus.With me so far? We are now in Aristodemus’s narrative: He and Socrates are going to friend Agathon’s house for dinner - the night before Agathon was crowned by Athens as their laureate; that celebration was a real Bacchanalian blowout. On this night Agathon and guests agree to not get hammered and just drink respectably and talk about Love. Each party member offers their dialectic on the topic of Love, when it is Socrates’s turn, he tells a story about the stranger Priestess Diotima who instructs him on the true meaning of Love. This is Barth Bliss - we are now three levels deep in storytelling. Everything gets wrapped up nicely by the sudden invasion of the dinner by the shitfaced Alcibiades, who takes a few pages to explain in his drunken state just how much he loves Socrates. The evening ends with more wine, some guests leaving, others passing out, and ultimately Socrates puts the remaining friends to sleep and leaves. The story ends suddenly, like Plato had just remembered a more important engagement and needed to wrap things up quickly.Hilton Als, in the opening essay “Tristes Tropiques” of White Girls uses one of the vignettes on love from The Symposium to describe his feeling for his best friend: a platonic love that feels like being separated from a twin. Having finished Plato’s work, I now understand his reference (and have only about ten more books to read or movies to watch to divine the rest of the references Als makes in his opening essay).Even if I wasn’t necessarily along for the ride on Plato’s “Love fest” in this work, I did love the construct of the narrative, the characters, the drunken party crashing Alcibiades and the Barthian telescoping storytelling. As the piece can be read in a single sitting I can recommend it as time well spent.
2774461913	نصفه های اولش که نمیفهمیدم قضیه از چه قراره اصلا اما نصفه ی دوم برام شفاف تر شدحجم کمی داره اما بنظرمن بشخصه یه شاهکارهیکی از دلایل شاهکار بودنشم قدمت زیادشه از دید من
1334558398	I think I'm just not into ancient Greek sausage fests. And in 2015, there are better texts about love without the pedophilia and women hating.
298227215	I suppose one should read some Plato to be considered an educated person. I really want to be an educated person, but this is an example of a book I would never get around to reading if I weren't pushed by some situation outside of myself. In this case the push came from a book group of which I am co-organizer. I am fortunate that the group has attracted participants with knowledge of the classics that exceeds my own. Therefore, my rough impressions from reading the material have a chance to be enhanced by the group's discussion.One comment I heard toward the end of our group's discussion was that we hadn't talked much about love given the fact that the book is about love. That pretty well describes the book for me. It's a long drawn out description of an all night bull session among the intelligentsia of 4th Century B.C. Classical Athens, and the topic of the evening is love. Monologues are given by five different individuals with Socrates being the last with the ultimate conclusion that love is a desire for the perfection of the soul. He describes the pursuit of this goal passing from the love of many to the love of one, to the love of the soul, and then to the love of knowledge and wisdom, thence to laws and institutions, and finally to the forms. The goal is something above us, something Else (with a capital “E”).After Socrates is finished a drunken Alcibiades enters the room and gives a sixth monologue about love that is in debased contrast to the lofty words of Socrates. I've learned from previous reading of Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War and Plutarch's Lives that Alcibiades was a famous, and later notorious, Greek who subsequently changed sides multiple times in the Peloponnesian War.All the characters in the story are real life Greeks of the classical era. Plato wrote this book about thirty years after the time of the story, and was thus writing from the perspective of knowing about the fall of Athens to the Spartans at the end of the Peloponnesian War. The dialogue as written by Plato is constructed to reveal themes that deal with the spectrum of issues and problems of Greek society in his troubled times.The following are some lecture notes published by The Teaching Company. I found them helpful and decided to leave them here in case any readers of this review want a more detailed "blow-by-blow" account of the book.Lecture FourteenSymposium—The Pride of Love(from: "Plato, Socrates and the Dialogues" by Michael Sugrue, Ph.D., published by The Teaching Co.)Scope:The Symposium rightfully holds the position of the greatest dialogue after the Republic, due both to its wonderful poetry and to its treatment of multiple themes, the key of which is love. Among the dramatis personae, we will encounter many familiar names from other dialogues, as well as some famous figures from Greek society of the time. Again, the target of the dialogue, set at an all-night drinking bout, is what Plato takes to be the errors in the teaching of the Sophists, which has corrupted the youth of Athens. Thus, we can expect Gorgias and the other Sophist teachers to come in for a dialectical beating here, and we are not disappointed. Likewise, the poet Aristophanes and the political leader Alcibiades (both enemies of Socrates) are held up to ridicule by Plato as a kind of pay-back for their role in Socrates’ death. The crux of the dialogue is love, or more particularly, what is the best kind of love. The characters other than Socrates are used to show gradations of misguided, self-seeking and ultimately futile love. Plato skillfully does this not only with his poetry, but the physical actions and even disguises in which he places the characters. In the end, the disinterested, higher, “sober” love of Socrates shines forth as the other players essentially sink into an abyss of drunkeness and ignorance. A careful consideration of this magnificent dialogue will reveal other themes that Plato often played on dealing with the entire spectrum of human (Greek) society of his troubled times.I. After the Republic, the Symposium is considered to be the greatest of the Platonic dialogues. The main theme is love, but other important themes are introduced, especially towards the end.A. There are levels of symbolism which must be analyzed in the context of the other Platonic dialogues.B. Many of the interlocutors and characters of the Protagoras (see Lecture 10) are present in Symposium. Also making an appearance is Aristophanes, the great comic playwright, and also Alcibiades.C. The setting is a banquet in honor of Agathon, a young poet (taught by Gorgias, the Sophist) whose tragedies have just won first prize in an Athens religious festival.1. Socrates gets into his good clothes to go to the party. But he stops along the way because he has fallen into a contemplative reverie.2. The early discussion of the seating arrangement is important because of the idea of the proximity of bodies (cf. to the Platonic idea of the proximity of souls). It must also be understood in light of the homosexuality of that stratum of Greek society in that late 5th century B.C. time period.3. We must also keep in mind the “corruption” theme, since these young men are either poets or have been educated by Gorgias, or both. They decide to give speeches in honor of the god of love, Eros. This is Plato’s device to reveal their souls from what they love.4. Socrates comes in late and sits next to Agathon (which means “good” in Greek). This is in itself symbolic.5. They decide not to let this degenerate into a wild drinking party, since they are still hung over from the last night’s carousing. This shows their immoderation and “bronze” love that features self-indulgence. There is a “soul-sickness” afflicting these people.II. One after the other, the men give their speeches to Eros, straddling piety and bodily interests and desires.A. Phaedrus, beloved of Eriximachus, student of Hippias, makes a very uninspiring speech, in which the gods or souls are never mentioned. It seems he didn’t learn anything from Socrates. His speech praising selfish, calculating love is well received. It is clear he has a “small” soul and has no concept of real love.B. Pausanius, lover of Agathon, praises selfish, pederast love. He advocates changing the nomos (law) of Athens in favor of the homosexual lover.1. He is speaking like a sophist, trying to gratify himself and change the external world rather than to concentrate on his soul.2. The guests at the banquet applaud the speech which is slightly better than that of Phaedrus.C. The next speaker is Aristophanes, the comic playwright.1. We must recall that Aristophanes has targeted Socrates in his plays, making fun of him and even making him look like a Sophist or worse (cf. to the Apology, where Socrates says his real accusers are the poets and playwrights who have made him appear to be a Sophist).2. Thus, Plato is getting his “revenge” by showing Aristophanes in a bad light.3. Aristophanes is unable to speak due to his over-indulgence. There is a short comic interlude when Aristophanes begins to hiccough and asks Eriximachus to cure him and/or speak next. This hiccoughing and the cure of sneezing are symbolic of “spasms” of desire that characterize Aristophanes.4. Eriximachus, a doctor, begins to speak of the unity of opposites as the goal of the soul. However, he is really interested in what gratifies him (in this case, homosexual love which is really the unity of the same).5. Eriximachus’ speech is, like the first two, rather mundane, selfish and aimed at the body, compared to the ones that will follow.D. Aristophanes now gets his turn to speak. He begins by talking about mythos (poetry or religious myth) which in his opinion supersedes the physical, mechanical view of the first three speeches.1. He tells the myth that humans used to have a connection of bodies: two faces, one head, four arms and four legs. These humans tried to scale the heights of Olympus, and Zeus split them in two.2. Thus, humans are seeking completeness, their “other half.”3. This really means that Aristophanes is half a man, who desires strongly and wants to gratify them in a maximal way.4. Humans are basically impious monsters who are now split in two. Aristophanes exemplifies this with his pursuit of Dionysus and Aphrodite.5. This is actually a very unbalanced, “un-Greek” conception of the soul and self.E. Agathon is next to speak, and his speech is better than all the preceding. But he is a student of Gorgias, so we can expect corruption. He is very narcissistic and his speech to Eros is really a speech or encomium to himself.1. He uses the Gorgian formula, which requires no thought whatsoever. The adjectives and phrases couldapply to anyone or anything.2. He likens himself to the great Homer. He has won the prizes, and is totally in love with himself, not seeing that this is false love.3. He really has no identity, because he doesn’t need other people (other than to fawn over him).4. At the end of the glittering speech, Socrates gets in an ironic line about Agathon’s praise of himself, disguised as praise to the god, Eros.F. Socrates is next, and starts out by saying (with ironic understatement) that he doubts if he can measure up to the speeches of Aristophanes and the others.1. He says that he learned about love from an woman prophetess named Diatina (in Greek, “the honor of God”). He states that love is a daimon, connecting the human and divine.2. The speech is actually a poetic mimesis of a Socratic dialogue within the larger dialogue. It is not like the rhetorical speeches of the others.3. He defines, or rather describes, love as a longing (therefore, it cannot be a god, since gods do not lack for any completeness).4. Love is mostly a desire for the perfection of the soul (bodies might enter into it, but that is not the focus). Diatima leads him up the “ladder of beauty,” which leads to the image of the final beauty in the beloved.5. Thus love moves from the love of many to the love of one, to the love of the soul, and then to the love of knowledge and wisdom, thence to laws and institutions, and finally to the forms. The goal is something above us, something Else (with a capital “E”).6. In the soul of our beloved, we see the image of the perfect beauty and love, which is outside of time and space.G. Everyone except Aristophanes stands and applauds. Aristophanes (who is now completely drunk) wants to rebut Socrates. But before he can do it, Alcibiades enters (recall that he was responsible for the loss of the Peloponnesian War because of the ill-fated Sicilian expedition; he is bad, daemonic, traitorous, corrupt).1. He represents the exact opposite of Socrates: disordered and evil, but outwardly eloquent and charming.2. Socrates is really Diatima’s “daimon of love.”3. Alcibiades enters drunk and dressed as the god Dionysus and places a laurel wreath on Agathon (Dionysus is the god of wine and also of tragedy and comedy).4. He recognizes Socrates and wants to place a wreath on Socrates (“there is no head like this in all of Greece”), even though Socrates makes him very uncomfortable.5. He invites everyone to drink deeply. He goes on about Socrates, and the crowd asks him for an encomium on Socrates. Alcibiades, in delivering this speech, first discusses his attempt to seduce him for homosexual love (thinking he would get Socrates’ wisdom).6. Socrates begins to emerge as the daemon of love, who does not care about the body or other human urges. He (Socrates) seeks the higher, purer love.7. This encomium really becomes a speech of accusation. Alcibiades accuses Socrates of hubris, of being non-human, of being too good. Since Alcibiades is in the form of a god, he can get away with this accusation of the partially divine daemon.8. At the end of the speech, the revelers (the demos) fill the room and the drinking picks up. Socrates’ gets both the tragic poet (Agathon) and the comic poet (Aristophanes) together with him. They eventually pass out; only Socrates remains sober.9. Socrates is arguing that the same poet can write both comedy and tragedy. Plato is saying that Socrates is the new tragic hero, yet he lacks a tragic flaw.H. Thus we can see that this great poem about love is also about politics, art, rhetoric and the soul.Readings:Essential:The dialogue SymposiumSupplementary:Russell, A History of Western Philosophy, Chapter XI (this discusses the historical Socrates and his circle and makes references to several passages in Symposium)Questions to Consider:1. Compare and contrast the treatment of the theme of love in Symposium (a middle dialogue) and Phaedrus (a late dialogue). Do you detect a maturity of Plato’s concept in the latter?2. Compare Diatima’s “ladder of beauty” with the “divided line” of Republic.
5327216555	هم چنان معتقدم که کتاب عجیبی بود و در عین حال که بدیهی و خیلی ساده بود حس میکردم چقدر کتاب سنگینیه ..تا به حال هیچ کتابی نخونده بودم که به صورت مباحثه ، سوال و جواب و مکالمه ای باشه و افلاطون با مهارت کامل تونسته همچین کتابی بنویسه...داشتن حالت گفتگو بسیار آدم رو مجاب میکنه که به خوندن ادامه بده تا ببینه نتیجه ی بحث ها چی میشه؟در کل ارزش خوندن بسیار بالایی داره اونقدر که با اینکه همین الان تمومش کردم دلم میخواد دوباره بخونمش . کلا حس میکنم از اون کتاباس که هر بار بخونی یه چیز جدیدی ازش متوجه میشی..
5556447955	Total unterhaltsam geschrieben. Mit Alcibiades kommt sogar richtig Spannung auf. Wieder was neues gelernt: der zeugende pädagogische Eros, der Kugelmenschenmythos, Eros als Dämon( Vermittler zwischen Göttern und Menschen) und als Philosoph ( Mittler zwischen Weisem und Unwissendem)
1871124146	-Βλέπεις λοιπόν, είπε ότι κι εσύ δεν θεωρείς τον Έρωτα θεό; -Τι θα μπορούσε όμως, είπα, να είναι ο Έρωτας; Θνητός; -Κάθε άλλο. -Τι όμως; -Όπως είπαμε πριν, είπε, μεταξύ θνητού κι αθανάτου. -Δηλαδή τι,Διοτίμα; -Μεγάλος δαίμονας Σωκράτη· γιατί όλα τα δαιμονικά όντα βρίσκονται μεταξύ θεού και θνητού. Συμπόσιον ή Περί Έρωτος! Στο συμπόσιο ενός τραγωδού, του Αγάθωνος, συγκεντρώνονται μεγάλες προσωπικότητες της εποχής(ανάμεσά τους ο Σωκράτης κι ο Αριστοφάνης) και πιάνουν κουβέντα σχετικά με τον Έρωτα. Ο Πλάτωνας,με φανταστική μαεστρία, καταφέρνει να δώσει στον κάθε ομιλητή τη δική του ξεχωριστή φωνή έκφρασης, η οποία μας αποκαλύπτει πολλά πράγματα σχετικά με τον χαρακτήρα του. Διάβασα με μεγάλο ενδιαφέρον τις απόψεις και τους επαίνουν όλων των προσώπων του έργου κι ακόμη κι αν σε ορισμένα σημεία διαφωνούσα ή δυσκολευόμουν να καταλάβω τα συναισθήματα που περιγράφονταν σε βάθος, ένιωσα "παρούσα" σε αυτό το συμπόσιο. Απόλαυσα ιδιαίτερα τον Αλκιβιάδη- η πιο διασκεδαστική παρουσία του έργου! Ανυπομονώ να πιάσω κι άλλα έργα του Πλάτωνος στα χέρια μου.[Readathon17: 2/52, ένα βιβλίο που βρίσκεται καιρό στο ράφι σας]
2936879630	It has been about 30 years since I attempted to read Plato, but this experience was a positive one for me. The Banquet is a relatively funny series of drunken dialogues on Love with Socrates present in his most sarcastic form. I enjoyed the interplay of the various speakers and the various concepts they batted around. One must, however, understand that the "love" that they are talking about is that between older and younger men and that the Greek society of the time was misogynistic in extremes that make Handmaid's Tale look like a feminist paradise. It is interesting to note that this same 'entre nous' atmosphere of educated men is not that different from that of the Renaissance (Michelangelo, Pontormo, da Vinci). In any case, I think that I may go back and read Phedre again as well.
4236705387	this was a piece i wanted to read since i got back into reading around this time last year. i adore themes and thoughts on love, admiration, longing, and devotion. so when i heard about this brilliant classic i was deeply interested. i recently (as in last night) decided to open my mind to greek literature and stop being so scared. i’m VERY happy i did. obviously i didn’t perfectly follow all of the references mentioned but i still could understand and enjoy the reading. at times this was deeply misogynistic while also being pedophilic, but i did expect that from greek philosophy. so if it’s going to take away from your experience be aware of it. i do think it’s an interesting and enjoyable read. 🍓💕
3181015133	اولین باری که این کتابو خوندم توی سن ۲۴ سالگی بود. فکر میکنم موقع کار توی آزمایشگاه بهش گوش دادم. چیز زیادی ازش خاطرم نیست ولی قسمتهای اولشو یه ذره بهتر نسبت به خطابه سقراط یادم بود. امسال دوباره کتابو خوندم چون میخوام اگه بشه وارد وادی فلسفه خوندن بشم. دیشب یک ساعت و نیم با داداشم پای تلفن داشتم در مورد کتابهایی که خوندیم حرف میزدیم. فکر کنم اون ساعت بهترین تایم روز بود.راستی تولدت مبارک، امیدوارم بهت خوش گذشته باشه. من که روز خوبی نداشتم ولی وقتی یادم میومد امروز تولد توئه حس بهتری میگرفتم. انگار یه خوشی امن توی وجودم بود که فقط متعلق به من بود، خوشی که کسی ازش خبر نداشت و فقط مال خودم بود. اینها در حالی‌بود که اون بیرون همه چی بهم ریخته و داغون بود و کل روز اعصابم خورد بود.
1515160482	کتاب داستان مهمانی یکی از دوستان سقراط است که چون در شاعری جایزه گرفته ولیمه میدهد.در این مهمانی همه از شرب و نشاط و هیاهو خسته میشوند و بنا میگذارند هر یک خطبه ای در وصف عشق و مدح خداوند عشق(اروس) بسرایند.همه به نوبت سخن از خدای عشق کرده و در نهایت نوبت به سقراط میرسد و به روش خاص خود(دیالکتیک)معنای عشق را روشن میسازد.آنچه واقعا لذت بخش است وصف هر یک از خداوندگار عشق است که با آنکه مربوط به حدود 2400 سال پیش هست هنوز مضامین ان تازه است و هنوز هم افراد در وصف عشق از همین تعابیر سخن میگویند.واقعا از خواندن ان لذت بردم و به جاست از ترجمه دلنشین دکتر محمد علی فروغی نیز قدردانی کرد.
3340978398	Ljubav je jako dugo bila prilično zanemarena tema u zapadnoj filozofiji. Tome se čudi već i Fedar, primjećujući kako je u jednoj knjizi čak i "so dobila čudnovatu pohvalu", dok "niko od ljudi do dana današnjega nije pregao da dostojno proslavi Erota, nego je tako zanemaren ostao tako moćan Bog!" Ovaj dijalog se u tom pogledu može smatrati anomalijom, bar kada je zapadna filozofija u pitanju. U kući mladog tragičara Agatona okupio se intelektualni krem atinskog društva. Uz obilato konzumiranje jela i u ovakvim prilikama nezaobilaznog vina, svako od njih izriče po jednu besjedu u slavu boga Erosa. Različitost njihovih profesija doprinosi tome da se ljubav prikazuje sa potpuno drugačijih aspekata, čime se na neki način nadoknađuje - za Sokratovu normu - manjak dijaloga, a samim tim i dijalektičnosti. Između ostalog, treba izdvojiti govor slavnog komediografa Aristofana o prvobitnim androginim ljudskim bićima, koje je Zevs kaznivši ih rasjekao na dvije polovine. Šlag na torti je naravno Sokratova (Platonova) besjeda koju izriče proročica Diotima. U njoj se ljubav - slično kao i u "Fedru" - definiše kao "rađanje u lepoti i telom i dušom", s tim da ovdje imamo dodatak u vidu stremljenja ka besmrtnosti u čemu se može nazrijeti i anticipacija Šopenhauerovog duha vrste. Na kraju fešte u kuću upada pijani Alkibijad, čiji govor je značajan po tome što predstavlja jedan od dragocjenijih izvora o Sokratovom karakteru."Fedar" i "Gozba" se sjajno nadopunjavaju pa preporučujem da se čitaju jedno za drugim. Iako primjećujem da je po broju prikaza "Gozba" dosta čitanija, ipak dajem prednost prvom dijalogu. Evo i jednog finog odlomka za one koji su hvatali Kairos za perčin: "Pravi put, naime, kojim čovek ide k tajnama ljubavi ili kojim ga drugi vodi jeste ovo: treba početi od mnogih pojedinih lepota i uvek se uspinjati radi one pralepote, kao da se hodi po stepenicama, od jednoga tela dvama telima, i od ova dva svima lepim telima, i od lepih tela lepim poslovima, i od lepih poslova lepim saznanjima, i od saznanja dospeti do onoga saznanja koje nije saznanje ni o čemu drugom do o samoj onoj pralepoti, da se naposletku tako upozna suština lepote."
1459044368	سمپوزیوم/ضیافت رو بزبان اصلی نخوندم و ترجمه‌ش بانگلیسی رو خوندم و پس در مورد نثرش حرفی نمیتونم بزنم. اما پیشنهاد کوچکم اینه که ترجمه جوئت رو بخونید. اما سمپوزیوم همونطور که مشهوره در مورد یک شب‌نشینیه که توش شراب میخورند و در مورد عشق حرف میزنند. موقعیت واقعا اغراق‌آمیزه، قبول کنیم. بهرحال سقراط و چن نفر دیگه نشسته‌ند و هرکی نظرشو میگه و سقراط هم نظرشو که کلش نقل قول از فرد دیگریست رو میگه. این شکل پرداختش بموضوع یکم ریتمش کنده ولی بطور کلی از بامزگی خالی نیست. من بعنوان ادبیاتی واجب ندیدم طرفی ازین اثر بربندم و با توجه باینکه فلسفه‌خوان نیستم رو بامزگیها و قشنگیها تمرکز کرد. بجای اینکه مثل یک عاشق بدانش (فیلسوف) بحرفهای سقراط ریز بشم ازون تیکه‌ای خیلی خوشم اومد که آریستوفانس نظرشو در مورد عشق گفت. اولا که اول که نوبت بآریستوفانس میرسه آریستوفانس سکسکه داره نمیتونه حرف بزنه. دکتر جمع بهش میگه نفستو نگه دار، نشد آب قرقره کن، نشد دماغتو قلقلک بده عطسه‌ت بگیره. این دیگه ردخورد نداره حتما قطعش میکنه. تکرار میکنم اینها قبل از میلاد مسیح نوشته شده. اما نظراتش در مورد عشق تقریبا مثل این بود که دارم عجایب‌المخلوقات میخونم. منطقی‌ترین حرفی که میزنه میگه بنظر من آدمها هیچوقت (خدای) عشق رو درک نکرده‌ند. اگر کرده بودند که تا میتونستند قربونی میکردند و براش معبد میساختند. اما یکم ازین پایینتر میگه آدمها فرزندان ماه و خورشید و زمینند، بخاطر همین اول همه گرد و کروی بودند و مثلا چهار دست و چهار پا داشتند، بعدا زئوس برشون خشم میگیره و نصفشون میکنه دارای دودست دوپا میشند اما ظاهرا احساس ناکاملی درشون میمونه. اینه که هی میرن همدیگه رو پیدا میکنند همدیگه رو بغل میکنند و انقدر باین مشغول میشند که بهیچ کار دیگه نمیپردازند و بیم این میره که از گرسنگی بمیرند؛ درین حد که از آسمون دلشون برحم میاد و فکر چاره میکنند. مثلا این قشنگ رو در همین اثنا میگه:Each of us when separated, having one side only, like a flat fish, is but a indenture of a man, and he is always looking for his other half. طرفه اینکه همین آقای آریستوفانس با همین مقدمات باین میرسه که مردانی که علاقه بهمجنس دارند مردانگی‌شون بیشتره و در حد کامله. بطور کلی توی ضیافت چیزهایی که در مورد عشق بپسر نوجوان مطرح میشه و احیانا برتر دونستنش از دیگر صورتهای عشق دوبار از شاهدبازی که معرف حضوره تکان‌دهنده تره.دیگر جایی که خیلی بامزه بود جاییه که یکی از معشوقهای سقراط دیروقت بجمع میپیونده و با حالت بازیچهٔ دست کودکانم کردی میشینه و پاکباخته میگه من چه حرفی از عشق بزنم من میخوام از سقراط حرف بزنم برا من عشق همینه. و شروع میکنه غر زدن و خاطره تعریف کردن.نهایتا هم راوی داستان خوابش میبره و دو سه جمله در مورد وضعیت صبح بعد بیداریش میگه و کتاب تموم میشه.
3010038755	Not a big fan of romance or even love stories ... however, this book presented discourses on love in a *relatively* interesting fashion. Basically reads as a scripted party with plenty of booze. BONUS FACT:The Symposium is the first explicit discussion of love in western literature and philosophy, and it begins as a discussion of homosexual love.SIDE NOTE:Confused as to why so many people shelve this as nonfiction, when it is fiction.
4699236634	هرچند احتمالا تلاش و اقدام آقای فروغی در زمان خودش ستایش‌برانگیز بوده، اما باز به نظرم ترجمه‌شون در روان بودن اصلا به پای ترجمه لطفی نمیرسه. از نیمه‌های کتاب، رفتم سراغ اون یکی ترجمه.خیلی لذت بردم از خوندنش. و بعدش که تموم شد و مقدمه کتابِ «ضیافت افلاطون نزد لئو اشتراوس» رو خوندم، فهمیدم که آدم‌ها چقدررررر میتونن عمیق‌تر همچین متنی رو بخونن و چیزهایی رو ببینن که ما (یا حداقل من!) نمی‌بینیم. این اتفاق و فکر کردن به این‌که چقدر کم میدونم و چقدر باید یاد بگیرم، حقیقتا سرحالم کرد‍.
4863356339	La lectura de este diálogo tan conocido de Platón la sentí como una reunión en la que cada voz te interpela de forma distinta. En este caso no sentí que estuviera sola con un libro, sino rodeada de comensales, escuchando un banquete de ideas sobre el amor que iban desde lo más solemne hasta lo más inesperadamente cómico.Cada discurso abre una ventana a un modo de comprender lo erótico y lo afectivo. Fedro inaugura la velada con un amor heroico, capaz de inspirar coraje y de forjar un ejército invencible de amantes. Pausanias, con aire de jurista, distingue entre un amor vulgar, que se agota en el cuerpo, y uno noble, que se dirige al alma y la educa. Luego llega Erixímaco, médico de profesión, que extiende el amor al orden cósmico: lo mismo que sana un cuerpo, armoniza las estaciones o da sentido a la música. Aristófanes irrumpe con un mito que es imposible olvidar, el de los andróginos partidos por los dioses, condenados a buscar su mitad perdida; un relato que todavía hoy resuena con fuerza en la manera en que concebimos la necesidad de otro. Agatón, en cambio, brilla con un discurso estilizado, donde el amor aparece como el más bello y joven de los dioses, delicado y virtuoso, aunque quizá demasiado embellecido para convencer a quien busque algo más que retórica.Y entonces Sócrates da un giro radical. Con la voz prestada de Diotima, nos recuerda que el amor no es un dios pleno, sino un daimón, un ser intermedio que carece y desea. Su fuerza está en la carencia, en el impulso hacia lo que no tenemos. La famosa “escalera del amor” nos guía desde la atracción por un cuerpo bello hasta la contemplación de la Belleza en sí, eterna y universal. Aquí la lectura deja de ser un desfile de opiniones y se convierte en una reflexión filosófica sobre el sentido mismo del desear, de la creación y de la inmortalidad a través de hijos, obras o conocimientos. Cuando el pensamiento amenaza con volverse demasiado abstracto, aparece Alcibíades, ebrio y desbordado, para poner a Sócrates en el centro de la escena: feo como un sileno por fuera, pero con un interior tan fascinante que transforma a quien lo escucha.Lo que me dejó marcada es precisamente esa mezcla: el mito, la ciencia, la ética, la retórica, la filosofía y la confesión personal, todo compartiendo la misma mesa. Es un texto que obliga a aceptar que el amor no cabe en una sola definición, porque es impulso vital, búsqueda de unidad, principio cósmico, inspiración estética y camino hacia lo eterno, todo a la vez. Pero también es algo que se encarna en personas concretas, como lo muestra Alcibíades con Sócrates.Acabé el diálogo con la sensación de que, más allá de estar leyendo un clásico de la filosofía, había estado conversando con voces que siguen haciéndonos preguntas muy actuales. Y la mejor de todas quizá sea la más sencilla y la más difícil: cuando decimos que amamos, ¿qué es exactamente lo que estamos persiguiendo?
5084519922	Αν είχα μία χρονομηχανή και την επιλογή να ταξιδέψω πίσω στο χρόνο, σίγουρα θα επέλεγα να επισκεφθώ την Αθήνα στην ακμή της! Να περιηγηθώ στην Αγορά, να ανέβω στην Ακρόπολη, να θαυμάσω τον Παρθενώνα, να αποτίνω φόρο τιμής στη θέα Αθηνά που σε αυτό το βράχο νίκησε τον Ποσειδώνα κατά τη διεκδίκηση της πόλης, και στο τέλος, να επισκεφθώ ενα Αρχοντικό που θα τελείται κάποιο παραδοσιακό συμπόσιο! Άφθονο κρασί, φιλοσοφικές συζητήσεις, δολοπλοκίες, σεξουαλικες περιπτύξεις, και οι πιο σημαίνουσες προσωπικότητες της πόλης! Ενα τέτοιο συμπόσιο μας περιγράφει ο Πλάτωνας στο έργο "Συμπόσιον". Μία παρέα γνωστών προσωπικοτήτων όπως ο Σωκράτης, ο Αλκιβιάδης ο Αγάθων, ο Παυσανίας και ο Αριστοφάνης, θα καθίσουν, χωρίς κατανάλωση αλκοόλ περιέργως, να κάνουν μια αρκετά σοβαρή συζήτηση γύρω απο τον έρωτα. Η φιλοσοφική συζήτηση που εκτυλίσσεται έχει τέτοιο "βάθος" σκέψης και ανάλυσης που διάβαζα με ανοικτό στόμα. Πλέον, δε θα σκέφτομαι τον έρωτα με την απλή και ρηχή έννοια που έχει σήμερα...Τρομερό έργο που μπορεί να διαβαστεί από όλους! Υπέροχο, υπέροχο, υπέροχο!
1970311310	Buen acercamiento a los planteamientos filosóficos, y además sobre uno de los temas que más ha fascinado a la humanidad desde su existencia: el amor.No hay que tenerle miedo; es fácil de leer y entretenido.Totalmente recomendable.
4647050102	In terms of Ancient Greek philosophy, this is a quick and easy read. Even though I don’t agree with all of the concepts about love presented, I still find them interesting and thought-provoking. Aristophanes’ view on love is my most favorite--he tells the myth of a time when there were three genders: male, female, and androgynous, and each individual was double their current size. That is, they had two heads, four hands, four legs, two sets of genitals, and so on, but Zeus divided them apart as a punishment for revolting. That's why we're filled with a strong sense of desire and longing for something, because we are always looking for our lost half. Good shit!
4853691559	Piękne myśli sprzed setek lat, konfrontacja różnych wizji miłości, a to wszystko w oparach alkoholu... Warto było przeczytać! PS Dziękuję za tę książkę, bo była to moja nagroda za obronę magisterską i przeczytałem ją w całości podczas letniego ONPW <3
1943243217	Ότι και να γράψει κανείς για το Συμπόσιο και τον Πλάτωνα είναι λίγο. Το μόνο που θέλω να αναφέρω εδώ είναι ότι η έκδοση που διάβασα είναι της Εστίας του 1934 (!), με καταπληκτική ανάλυση / μετάφραση και σχόλια από τον Ι. Συκουτρή, έναν επιφανή φιλόλογο της δεκαετίας του 30. Είναι η πιο ''κλασική'' και ιστορική έκδοση του Συμποσίου. Η ανάλυση είναι εκπληκτική και διαβάζεται πάρα πολύ ευχάριστα παρόλα τα χρόνια, μιας και ο Συκουτρής ήταν όχι μόνο αυθεντία στον αρχαίο Εελληνισμό αλλά είχε πραγματική αγάπη και μεράκι προς το αντικείμενο, κάτι που ''βγαινει'' και προς τα έξω στη δουλειά αυτή και καθιστά το βιβλίο απολαυστικότατο.
3411707842	3,5🌟pokalbis su mama: - Vėl skaitau Platoną. Įdomu, rašo, kad kūryba yra tai, kas iš nebūties pereina į būtį.- Pavyzdžiui, bandelės ant stalo :D - Aha, būtent :D - Tai šiandien daug prikūriau, kaimynam išdalinau, į Kauną nuvešiu.- Ir vėl pereis į nebūtį. - Arba į kg.
1914001710	از کل کتاب فقط بخش صحبت های سقراط درباره ی عشق دل نشین نوشته شده و بقیه یا صحبت درباره ی خدایانه یا ویژگی های فردی و تعریف و تمجید و فروتنی سقراط ک واقعا بیش از حده. ی چیز جالبی ک بود عادی بودن روابط بین سقراط و بقیه بود و چنان شاعرانه تفسیرش میکردن ک واقعا عجیب بود.
2649248663	Beim „Symposion“ des Platon, dem am vollständigsten erhaltenen Text von Platon, erhält man sowohl einen verständlicher Einblick in einen Teilbereich der antiken Philosophie — namentlich um den Eros und in weiterer Linie Erotik — und der Methodik des Sokrates als auch ein sehr gutes literarisches Werk.In Form einer Erinnerung wird von Apollodoros (ein Anhänger und ständiger Begleiter des Sokrates) ein zurückliegendes Symposion, also ein geselliges Zusammenkommen mehrerer Freunde mit Wein und Reden, geschildert. Dieser selbst kennt die Geschehnisse jener Nacht vom befreundeten Aristodemos. Mit Aristodemos waren noch Phaidros, Pausanias, Eryximachos, Aristophanes und eben Sokrates beim Gastgeber Agathon, um in Gesprächen dem Eros auf die Spur zu kommen. Zu guter Letzt kommt dann noch Alkibiades hinzu und singt ein Hohelied auf Sokrates und seine Liebe zu ihm. Neben Einblicken in die griechische Gesellschaft (und vor allem die Homoerotik) bietet sich auch ein wenig Einblick in die griechische Mythologie und Heldensagen, auch wenn die für den unbedarften Leser wahrscheinlich teils schwierig zu verstehen sind. Die Qualität der einzelnen Reden schwankt zunächst, was sicherlich intendiert war. Interessanter sind die Reden von Aristophanes, Agathon und Sokrates. Aristophanes stellt den bekannten Kugelmenschen-Mythos in den Mittelpunkt der Erotik. Die Kugelmenschen hatten kugelförmige Rumpfe, vier Hände und Füße sowie zwei Gesichter. Neben Männern und Frauen gab es auch noch Androgyne, also Menschen mit beiden Geschlechtern. Zeus bestrafte die Arroganz dieser Menschen, indem er sie in zwei Hälften spaltete und so der moderne Mensch geschaffen war (um das Aussterben zu verhindern wurden die vormals hinten liegenden Geschlechtsteile nach vorne gesetzt). Dies ermöglichte die Erfüllung sexueller Bedürfnisse. Interessanterweise wird basierend auf dem Kugelmenschen-Mythos auch die Homosexualität erklärt. Nur Menschen, die aus ehemals androgynen Kugelmenschen erschaffen wurden, waren heterosexuell. Alle anderen waren dementsprechend als Mann Männern zugeneigt und als Frau Frauen. Nebenbei beschreibt Aristophanes die männliche Homosexualität als ideale Norm, nicht hingegen die Heterosexualität.Agathons Rede hingegen ist inhaltlich nicht sonderlich interessant, wird aber anschließend von Sokrates mittels seiner Kunst der Maieutik noch einmal diskutiert. Hier zeigt sich ein schönes Beispiel für die Technik Sokrates (wobei die historische Maieutik bis heute umstritten ist). Schließlich ergreift Sokrates selbst das Wort und berichtet von einer Diskussion mit der weisen Diotima. Hier sind zwei interessante Aspekte erwähnenswert. Das eine ist das Prinzip der Unsterblichkeit, nach der die sterblichen Lebewesen drängen. Unsterblich sind Lebewesen aber selbst nicht, sie können sich nur fortpflanzen und ihre Nachkommen hinterlassen. Deswegen gilt die Liebe hier den Nachkommen, und das Wohl der Nachkommen wird über das eigene Wohl gestellt. Diese Form der Unsterblichkeit bezieht sich aber nicht nur auf Lebewesen, sondern auch auf ein εργον, also ein Werk — etwa ein Gedicht, ein Drama oder auch die Gesetzgebung. Schließlich beschreibt Diotima noch, wie sich die Liebe von körperlicher Schönheit im Einzelfall bei zunehmender philosophischer Weisheit der allgemeinen ästhetischen Schönheit der Dinge zuwendet. Sokrates beschließt also seine Rede damit, dass Eros auf diesem philosophischen Weg der beste Helfer der Menschen sei, indem er für sie das wahre Schöne zugänglich macht.Abgeschlossen wird das ganze noch von einer Rede von Alkibiades, der Sokrates lobt und dessen guten Eigenschaften hervorhebt. Hier kommen noch einmal verschiedene Aspekte des Leben des Sokrates zum Ausdruck.Alles in allem ein verhältnismäßig einfach lesbarer Text und damit eine gute Einführung in die Werke Platons / über Sokrates.
3451967936	You can find my review on my blog by clicking here.What is Love? That is a question that we continuously try and answer in our life and it is a challenge bestowed upon humans to come to a common consensus in regards to what it is. After all, there’s nothing more versatile than love itself, taking on forms that we sometimes never knew existed until we truly felt it in every fiber of our body. But what makes it so special? Why is it so often sought, so often given when we least expect it? It might, in fact, be one of the many experiences in life that can only be understood once facing it, once you’re prompted to go up against it toe-to-toe, stripped down to your raw emotions and instincts, nothing but the heart and mind trying to come to terms with how they can coexist. What if our great founders of Western philosophy had a go at explaining it all to us? What would that give? Maybe much more than we would’ve expected from them, even when they are drunk with wine and inclined towards friendly mockery.What is The Symposium about? This is Plato’s retelling of a dialogue that occurred during a banquet/symposium hosted by the tragic poet Agathon. Narrated by Apollodorus to an unknown individual, this piece exposes various points of view of several key historical characters, from Alcibiades to Socrates, on numerous themes as they philosophize and offer unparalleled wisdom, sometimes based on Greek mythology itself, to enlighten each other. However, the heart of their discourse was dictated by Phaedrus’ proposal to give each of them the opportunity to deliver a speech in praise of the god of Love (Eros), allowing them to openly reflect on their understanding of the nature of love. This edition also includes chapters on the allegory of the cave and the divided line which are both found in Plato’s The Republic.While included extracts on the allegory of the cave was a refreshing reminder of the role of perception and the comfort of a known reality to man, it is the tale of the banquet that remains the most fun and central discourse throughout this philosophical text. The contextual environment in which takes place this exchange allows for some very inspiring and wholly admiring thoughts on the nature of love. How these men conceive Love paves the way for some fascinating reflections, including the entertaining story regarding Zeus’ role in our eternal search for love or the distinction between Common Love from Heavenly Love. It is upon Socrates’ intervention to express the possibility of Love being a spirit rather than a God that the conversation shifts towards much more logical bases. His argumentation structure, highly influenced by notable syllogisms, also reminds us why he remains one of the greatest philosophers known to man.The characterization that bleeds through this banquet is also outstanding. If you’ve never heard of these Greek figures, you’ll discover that their sense of humour, brimming with sarcasm, comes with their high intellect and tendency towards logic, wisdom, and tragedy. Socrates was a surprise, in particular, displaying a certain charisma in his approach to meticulously destroy other arguments, to never give straight answers when the subject of the matter is still too complex for mankind, and to continuously question his fellow comrades’ statements to make them realize the flaws in their arguments. The way he simply leads them into always agreeing with him is divine and really contributes to making his persona so untouchable. As previously mentioned, the format of a banquet really allowed this discourse between these fellows to be much more accessible and amicable.The Symposium is an insightful intellectual offering on the subject of love, desire, beauty, knowledge, and good, through affable banter between notable men in Ancient Greece.Yours truly,Lashaan | Blogger and Book ReviewerOfficial blog: https://bookidote.com/
