23182172	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY!!
2685858054	Medea is a QUEEN
1621096199	It's always surprising how brutal and bloody Greek tragedies are (but: never nihilistic! The one who wrongs will be pursued by the Gods, and usually the entire bloodline is cursed)Medea: Medea is angry that her husband Jason is taking a new wife, he wants to ban her from the city as she's dangerous, she plans revenge and murders the new wife as well as her own children - since that will hurt her husband more. She survives and escapes the city with the bodies of the children.Hecabe: Ex-queen of Troy, now slave, has to watch as her daughter is sacrificed by the Greeks looking for good omens to return; she also learns that her son was murdered earlier by a trusted friend, so she plots revenge on Polymestor, and traps him with her friends - they stab out his eyes and murder his children. Agamemnon sends the blind Polymestor away without more bloodshed: after all, he murdered his guest, it was his fault.O stately royal palace! O once happy home!O Priam, famed for boundless treasures; famed as father,And I as aged mother, of children without peer! How we have come to nothing, stripped of our old pride!And we – we paltry humans – swell with arrogance,One for the wealth and luxury of his house, anotherBecause the citizens all call him a great man!Such things mean nothing; careful schemes, the eloquenceOf boasters – all nothing! The man who day by dayLives on, escaping misery – he is happiest.Electra:Former princess, now married away to a commoner after an usurper conspired with her mother to kill the king Agamemnon and take over the throne (it's also revenge of the mother for the earlier sacrifice of Iphigenia by Agamemnon at the start of the Trojan War - the same Iphigenia who survived in Goethe's play Iphigenia in Tauris, a Tragedy). Electra waits for her brother Orestes (the one who later shows up in The Oresteia), who traps the king and murders him, and both murder their mother. They suffer from their great crime of matricide, Orestes is instructed to leave and purge his soul (in a few sentences the story of the Oresteia is foretold).Heracles:Yet another usurper, yet another family in peril while the man (here Heracles) is away on adventures. Before the new king can murder the family (after all, young kids are future usurpers!) Heracles appears and kills the king. Since this is a Greek tragedy happy endings are not a good thing - so Madness personified has to appear (some old bloodlines curse or whatevs), Heracles turns mad and kills his sons and wife in a frenzy. His mind returns, and Theseus leads the broken man away.I need to read more Greek tragedies!
4907927691	nobody did it like the greeks
5788081456	love vengeful, murderous women !-tess
1688558830	43. Euripides I : Alcestis, The Medea, The Heracleidae, Hippolytus (The Complete Greek Tragedies)published: 1955 (my copy is a 26th printing from 1993)format: 224 page Paperbackacquired: May 30 from a Half-Price Booksread: July 5-9rating: 4 starsEach play had a different translatorAlcestis (481 bce) - translated by Lattimore, Richard c1955The Medea (431 bce) - translated by David Grene c1944The Heracleidae (circa 430 bce) - translated by Rex Warner c1955Hippolytus (by 428 bce) - translated by Ralph Gladstone c1942“Perhaps the most significant remark about Euripides and Sophocles is that supposed to have been made by Sophocles, that he himself showed men as they ought to be (or as one ought to show them) but Euripides showed them as they actually were.” - from Lattimore's introduction.That is a bit of silly comment because no one stands and delivers long, uninterrupted dialogues about private thoughts which they don't actually want anyone to know about. But the statement does have some logic. Sophocles characters are higher, more heroic in statement and action. Euripides characters aren't. Even his heroes and gods speak very regularly. In translation, the works come in long inexorable monologues that don't appear to translate well to poetry, and that don't really strike the reader, or at least didn't strike this reader, until later on when you realize how terrible everything turned out and how terrible it was what they thought, said and did. They create what I like to think of as the build up of a quiet hidden energy, of a very dark sort. They also end almost suddenly, and certainly not in any satisfying manner.These are the four oldest of Euripides plays. Each seems interesting in taking a very dark happening in the mythology, and dragging it out, putting words to these terrible things. Alcestis Before the opening of the play: Apollo was sentenced to serve Admetus, a king in Thessaly, for a year. Treated well, he rewards Admetus. He helps Admetus to do some impossible tasks to win the hand of Acestis as his wife. But, in the process, Admetus forget a critical sacrifice to Artemus, who plans to have him killed by snakes. Apollo miraculously negotiates with the Fates and gets Admetus's life an extension - but someone must volunteer to die in his place. No one would agree to this, not even his aging parents. Finally Alcestus agrees (making her, apparently, an ideal Ancient Greek wife.) That all happens off the stage, and is never explained within the play. The play opens with Alcestic about to die, and Apollo negotiating for her life with death himself, Thanatos. Apollo, fails, but promises to send Heracles to make things right. Meanwhile, Alcestis has to die, and her husband, and children and servants must witness it. This tragedy is the heart of the play. Heracles shows up, unaware of anything. The mourning is hid from Heracles, who proceeds to get drunk and happy and then get confused about why no one will join him. But, what is strange to me, is that even though Heracles does create a happy ending, the tragedy is what hangs around.This was not Euripides first play. He had been writing for years. But this is the oldest we still have. Medea This seems to be Euripides most important play(??). Medea, a conflicted hero from Jason and the Argonauts, is, here, a fascinating character. She is the barbarian from the east (from the Black Sea), unstable, uncivilized, a ruthless personality and a sorceress. When she falls for Jason, part of how she saves him is till kill her own brother in a boat chase, cut him up into pieces and scatter the pieces, forcing her own kingdom's boats to stall and pick up the pieces. That was not her most brutal action. And her story is long.Here in the play, Jason has spurned her and their children and become engaged to a princess of Corinth. He does this for political advantage (he's in a bad spot because of Medea's latest crimes). Medea explodes in a spectrum of emotions of anger, jealously, etc. And then she plots, and she acts, concealing her true emotions from the other actors, but not from the audience. She will manipulate a safe haven for herself in Athens, gift the princess with a poisoned dress, kill her own children to thoroughly ruin Jason, and then flee in her magic chariot of sorts. As Jason, who is thoroughly ruined, tries to confront her. But she, still fresh from killing her own children, rails at him with a prolonged bitter speech that has not even the slightest hint of remorse. Medea will carry on. Heracleidae This is apparently something of a rushed drama with a political point. In the real world context, Athens recently caught five foreign diplomats on a mission dangerous to Athens. They were summarily executed, without even being given a promised chance to make a public statement. Here Heracles has died, and his sons are on the run under a protector. Their king, Eurystheus, treated Heracles so badly, that he feels he must kill the children to prevent their vengeance. The city of Athens agrees to protect the children and a war ensues. Later, Eurystheus is captured, and confronted with the mother of Heracles, Alcmene. She demands his death, immediately. But, in the process, loses her dignity in her rage, while the bad Eurystheus oddly establishes a dignity we didn't know he had.Another key oddity here is the voluntary sacrifice of Macaria, a daughter of Heracles. For battle success, human sacrifice was considered essential, and she volunteers for the sake of her brothers.Much to be uncomfortable with here. But, really, that is also true of the previous two plays too. Hippolytus This was my favorite because it didn't leave me so uncomfortable. But, still, it's tragic. Phaedra, wife of Theseus, king of Athens, has fallen in love with her stepson, Hippolytus. She collapses into a self-destructive depression. Her not-so-bright maid tries to help her, and finally pulls out of her this very private and terrible thing that is bothering her. Then the maid tells Hippolytus(!!)...and the tragedies ensues (in far excess of reason).Phaedra is the main interest here, making a psychological study that is really interesting. But I also found it interesting to read an Ancient Greek playwright's description of an earthquake and consequence Tsunami. overallEuripides so far strives at making the viewer/reader uncomfortable. He is interesting, but he's not fun like Sophocles was. The reward is, well, unclear. The art is in the complexity of our response, one that seems fully molded, intentionally, by the playwright. I'll read more, but I won't anticipate them so much as brace myself for them.
3186093675	Euripides’ tight focus on just a handful of characters – part and parcel of Greek tragedies – and the way he jumps right into action and pathos is refreshing for someone like me whose reading of drama revolves mainly around the English Renaissance with its customary abundance of, well, everything, including mandatory comic subplots. None of that is present in these four plays. However, the first play, Alcestis, resonates interestingly with The Winter’s Tale. Medea deserves its titular role in the collection, a devastating account of a woman taking revenge on a man, which in some part resembles a 21st-century feminist literary trend in its moral ambiguity and shockingness. The Children of Heracles and Hippolytus were not quite as strong, but this is chiefly due to reading four plays back-to back, i.e. over-exposure.
1490801270	I've reviewed the individual plays from this volume of Euripides' plays (the first of five volumes, all of which I have and will read in order) separately; they are the earliest surviving plays and include the well-known Medea as well as Hyppolytus, which aside from Medea stood out to me in this collection.
4356110365	my favourite thing ive had to read for school so far
5007260562	Tbh if I was her I just would have gotten over it and been normal.
4704512941	I’ve been feeling the ancient Greeks calling to me and when I heard Natalie Haynes say that Medea by Euripides was her favorite play of all time I couldn’t resist so I took a break from the International Booker and Desmond Elliott Prize lists and read the four plays in this volume: Medea, which is as good as Natalie Haynes said it is, in which Jason explains why he married a princess after Medea sacrificed everything for him and helped or rather won the challenges to set to him, and Medea explains why she committed the unthinkable crime for which she is famous; Hecabe which features Agamemnon and Odysseus dealing with a mother’s justified grief and anger; Electra, in which the question of revenge and justice is weighed when Electra and her brother Orestes discuss killing their mother to avenge their father; and Heracles (aka Hercules) which was surprisingly to me about faith in the existence of the gods.All plays were brilliant and again I see why they are classics and why my dad loved them so much.Highly recommended
6152556347	I love women and their schemes!!!!
4564299625	One of Euripides’ most powerful and best-known plays, Medea is a remarkable study of injustice and ruthless revenge. In Euripides’ retelling of the legend, the Colchian princess Medea has married the hero Jason. They have lived happily for some years at Corinth and have produced two sons. As the play’s action begins, Jason has decided to cast off Medea and to marry the daughter of Creon, king of Corinth.
2178483954	MEDEA!Daughter of a King. Niece of nymph. Granddaughter of a god. Wife of a hero. How many women have you known in any literary piece ever written, in all history of humanity, who incarnate all of these blessings together in one?A fistful, maybe?Killer of her own children! ( Ok. Now you are definitely left with ONE only.)MEDEA! A symbol. A metaphor. A precedent. A uniqueness. ONE and only in millennia. What else can one say.
5681115920	Medea solos. Euripides is a feminist.
15807318	I only read the intro and 'Medea' and not the 'Other Plays.' This Penguin Classics edition is neat because there are detailed notes throughout the play (noted at the back) explaining all sorts of stuff: how the tragedy would've been presented on stage back then, the backstory of the mythology behind it all, the critical reactions to certain passages throughout history, etc. There is ALSO a glossary at the back that explains the whos, whats and wheres of all proper nouns listed throughout the plays. This all makes for a very easy and informative/enriching reading experience compared to just reading the play dry and going, "Huh? Who is AEGEUS?" Did you know that the word 'panic' comes from Pan - one of the Greek deities attributed to causing madness?So Euripides, along with Sophocles and Aeschylus, are the 3 main tragedians of Ancient/Classical Greece (all 3 in Athens mostly) as my "Western Humanities" text book points out. They all wrote tons of plays but not many survived. They'd present their tragedies at the Festival of Dionysus. At each festival they'd present 4 plays- the first 3 were tragedies (sometimes a related trilogy, other times not) and the 4th play was a 'satyr play' which was comic and oftentimes raunchy and grotesque - it was like a little dessert for the audience at festival's end. The people of Athens declared Aeschylus and Sophocles winners of the festivals more times than Euripides but it sounds like they maybe just weren't ready yet for Euripides. I don't know - I've already forgotten what I read about him 3 days ago.The story of 'Medea' is pretty awesome - I guess it's about as tragic as tragedy can get. There are some enjoyable passages about a woman's place in the world of men - a lot of stuff that is still relevant and funny and scathing. The basic plot is that Medea is the wife of Jason (the guy with the Argonauts) and he really dicks her over - I won't say how. And she then spends the whole play seeking revenge. There are some brutal elements here that reminded me of "Oldboy" - the Korean film from a couple of years ago - the one that churned my innards in ways like no movie has before. It was one of 3 films in the director's Vengeance Trilogy. Medea reminds me of a character in the movie - I won't say who - but it's got one of the best movie endings ever- TRULY turning things up to 11!!!!!!!!!Here's my favorite passage from 'Medea.' It's towards the beginning, after we've learned about what Jason the A-hole has done. The nurse is one of the caretakers of Medea and Jason's children. NURSE: "Inside with you, children, it will be all right, into the house! And you do all you can to keep them out of the way; don't let them near their mother while she's in this depression! I've already seen her glaring at them like a bull, as if she wanted to do something awful. I'm sure of one thing, that anger of hers won't die down until someone's felt the force of her thunderbolt. I pray her victims are enemies, not those who love her!"This reminded me of a woman I know!
225221010	Euripides is one of the three greatest tragedy writers of classical Greek, a genre full of drama and suffering by the tragic hero. With Medea being one of his best works, Euripides rewrote the myth of Jason, Medea and the Golden Fleece by providing a few new twists, especially near the end of the story. The story takes place in ancient Greece in Corinth, where Jason, perhaps, for his future, married the princess. Medea later found out about the affair, became uncontrollable, and began her wild venture. Medea's described to be psychological unstable, which led to the appearance of Medea's dark side as a murderer. This book relates to the chaotic world we live in, with protests going on everywhere around the world, whether about the unemployment, government or war. The chaos can affect the people as in the case of Medea, made her to rid herself of moral and filled her mind with hatred and rage. A relationship can be made between Medea and Lady MacBeth, made apparent by their struggles with emotions, doubting themselves before committing the unthinkable. The story resembles some of the reality television shows that depict people in the worst of times such as Maury, etc, which ironically, make them so popular. Nothing in this story evokes a personal memory for me, I can gladly say. After reading this book, I definitely have a stronger attitude against the many "sins" the characters commit, there are no reason one should even think of these in-humanistic ideas. This book ties perfectly with the theme of duality of good and evil in human nature. Human nature can be unpredictable, unstable at times, which can alter one's character for better or worse. Euripides portrayed the characters in a way to compare and contrast the theme of good and evil in human nature, represented by the personality change in Medea. Medea took a turn for the worse as her hatred and thirst for revenge took over. I personally loved this book and I would recommend this to anyone who likes short tragedy with crazy twists all throughout the story. I feel the author accomplished his goals, providing with clear, descriptive details that make the theme more clearly. I was not convinced about the short sentences in the book, but as I got into it, they actually made the book easier to understand and made apparent the important themes embedded in the words.
466370913	I have mixed reactions to these plays. Medea was superb - I was astonished at how modern the themes were. But Electra was such a disappointment in contrast - the characters never really leapt off the page. Here are my reviews of the two I have read so far:http://allthingsbooker.wordpress.com/...http://allthingsbooker.wordpress.com/...
1131255990	Great but a bit depressing.
5321806683	Euripides is the best writer of women in the ancient world, maybe ever. There's so much in these stories that read like prophecy for how they'll be told in the future, especially the metacommentary on Helen's reputation, Heracles looking a bit like a dumb jock, but mostly Medea's rage on behalf of women. Particularly biting are these lines from Medea: "What other creatures are bred so exquisitely and purposefully for mistreatment as women are? Think of how we buy ourselves husbands, power and alliances for them, slavery and conquest over us. Bad enough to have no choice in servitude- but to pay for it and then celebrate a wedding feast adds salt to the wound. Try refusing the arrangement, or later petition for divorce--the first is impossible while the second is like admitting you're a whore." I swear we haven't summed it up as well in 2000 years. Medea is practically addressing the audience when she says "tell me -- how does it feel with my teeth in your heart?"
5291176445	The translation was nice, though I would have appreciated more substantial introduction/notes sections. Then again, I definitely got my money’s worth ($3 for a very old paperback that looks like it went through a toaster oven)
3459390691	Each story has its own charm and uniqueness but, Alcestis is definitely my favorite
6234498182	i love BETRAYAL and MURDER and TRAGEDY
5384359655	Masterpieces!! Euripides is great!! I really enjoyed rereading these gems.
4488770691	Three stars... Euripedes comes off as very misogynistic and his portrayal of human emotion in Medea feels fleeting rather than natural...Maybe it's because I've always been on Medea's side 😂
7672299675	Hippolytus > Medea >> Alcestis > The Children of Heracles
7863424008	It’s actually difficult to put into words how much this play changed me. I’ve been obsessed with Medea as a character ever since. Euripides is truly one of the greats and my favourite of the ancient tragedians by far. His treatment of Medea with empathy while still affording her the agency and ruthlessness others might have shied away from showing is what makes her so compelling. Waiter! Ten more female characters exactly like this please!!
2640867990	Euripedes wrote more than 100 plays. Only 17 of them survive. This volume contains Alcestis, Medea, The Children of Hercules and Hippolytus. Medea is probably the best known of the four. Hence it gets top billing in the title. It is the best of the four plays too I think. It is as dark as you'd expect based on the subject matter. There is a good general introduction by Richard Rutherford and a short introduction to each play, which - with the notes - really helps contextualise what you are reading. It also helps identifies missing text and issues of comprehension. The past, as a writer whose name escapes me, is like a foreign country. They do things differently there.Women - bad women - are often at the centre of Euripedes' plays. It was noted even near his time. Aristophanes takes the piss out of him for his hostility to women. Hippolytus gets a long speech railing against women that ends:"I curse you all! Never will I have my fill of hating women, even though they say I never cease to speak of them. Do they ever cease from sinning? Let someone teach them to control their desires or leave me to trample them underfoot for ever!"Which makes Hippolytus sound like a prototype incel. However, the men in these plays are mostly proud, belligerent and - in Jason's case particularly - utter pricks. I mean Medea's response to Jason is utterly mad but Jason has run off with a younger woman, demands Medea leave their children with him and wants her banished from the city. Whether those crimes deserve the punishment Medea meats out to him is moot. Hippolytus is a prig, Theseus curses his son in a moment of rage and doesn't bother to check facts and Phaedra's 'love' for Hippolytus is triggered by a goddess with a grudge. There are victims of the Gods everywhere. Sometimes they hubristically bring it on themselves. But sometimes the punishments don't seem to fit the crime. Greek Gods are sensitive sorts who will bear a grudge. These were an interesting read. I'd say Medea and Hippolytus are essential reading. Both as plays themselves and as long term influences on drama. Hippolytus begat Racine's Phaedra, which is a play often mentioned in Proust's "In Search of Lost Time." See, it's all one book. Glad I read them. I'd really like to see Medea live now.
6495358581	played these stage-plays with my gf out loud & it peaked getting the ick by men in history.nothing will ever make me like you, agamemnon. -5/10 in EVERY play he was in. also: greek gods are the definition of pettiness. stan them for that wow
4627073062	Medea needs to chill Jason is also very stupid I’m sure my classics teacher will be happy with my detailed review 🎈
508051923	A Greek tragedy is a Greek tragedy, helpful tautology to describe these reads. What always fascinates me while reading such ancient writings is that they are incredible time machines; one can really experience the 'feel' of bygone ages. It is also very rewarding to take a look at the origins of literary devices that would become prominent cliches to western arts, such as the Deus ex Machina for Euripedes.The plots are lovely, so shocking and outrageous for today standards, specially taboo regarding filial relationships. Our psychological troubles were several layers less complex, I would guess purer in a sense. The stories serve an educational purpose; there is always a moral lessons underlining them that represent what ideals were highly regarded in classical Greek societies. Loyalty, hospitality and letting go trying to control relentless Nature are the most important for Euripedes. He was also very keen to explore the nature and role of women in society, it seems he was never really able to put a finger on them, but he tried.
7947378562	love love love, Medea you're an icon
6395076536	Medea was mentioned in another book I recently finished (Anna O by Matthew Blake) so I decided to read that. I’m glad I did. Why haven’t I read the plays by Euripides before? Highly readable. Shocking at times for the reference to human sacrifices to the ancient gods, killing of children, revenge murders, power plays, and the treatment of women in Ancient Greece’s entertainment for the masses back then. All the characters in this book, Medea, Electra, Hecabe and Heracles are brought down by betrayal, guilt, jealousy and then all “lose the plot”.Medea and Other Plays by Euripides (Book Review) and a bit of Anna O by Matthew Blakehttps://youtu.be/uMp4Yg0EBi0
3694293738	i only read medea but wow, she's crazy, she literally killed four people in the space of one day, but revenge on her husband, yay! pretty weird, being so short, although it was hilarious reading medea's ridiculously crazy thoughts (seriously she's crazy)!
4532421252	10/10 better than Shakespeare
6871264222	Je ne connaissais pas du tout le mythe de Médée, mais c’est une très bonne surprise !
3852933830	Euripides I: Alcestis, Medea, The Children of Heracles, HippolytusPlease give my Amazon review a helpful vote - https://www.amazon.com/gp/customer-re...I read this as part of the Online Great Books program. I found the five plays in this text to be quite accessible and quite interesting. The book has a glossary of names that is useful for keeping track of persons, places, and relationships. What was fundamentally interesting to me was the fleshing out of Greek mythology. I know some of these myths up to the point where we assume "and they all lived happily ever after." Apparently, Greeks did not put much stock in happy endings and loved putting their protagonists into no win situations.Take "Medea," for example. We knew that Medea fell in love with Jason (of Jason and the Argonauts) and saved his bacon on numerous occasions. She cuts her ties with her family and homeland with extreme prejudice. She marries Jason and they have two sons.So, does she get her happy ending? Not after Jason decides to marry the King's daughter and cut her and their sons off from his support. She naturally, but, perhaps, disproportionately, plots revenge against the king and Jason's new wife. When Jason proposes to take his sons to live with him because he loves them, Medea extends her revenge to include them, from which we get the term "Medean" for mothers who kill their children.In Hippolytus, Aphrodite decides to get revenge on Theseus's son, Hippolytus, who favors Artemis, by stirring up passion in Theseus's wife, Hippolytus's step-mother, for Hippolytus. When her passion is rejected by Hyppolytus, in order to save herself from a disgrace that might result in her children being disinherited by Theseus, she kills herself in a way that frames Hippolytus. An enraged Theseus uses one of his three curses from his father, Poseidon, on his innocent son. After Hippolytus is killed, then and only then does Artemis share the truth with Theseus.In Alcestis, King Admetus has been blessed by Appollo with the boon of putting off his death if, and only if, someone else is willing to take his place. Naturally, no one is willing to do this, except his wife, Alcestis, who recognizes that a dead King will mean that her children will be at risk. Alcestis actually has what may pass for a happy ending in Greek theater as Heracles intervenes to manhandle Death into coughing up Alcestis for a happy if mysterious re-union with her louse of a husband. (She may not speak for three days....three days after her return from death!)Finally, the Children of Heracles has a lot of drama and its own questionable happy ending. After Heracles is taken to heaven, his children are left defenseless against King Eurystheus, who fears that they will seek revenge against him for his tormenting their father. The children and their guardian, Iolaus, seek refuge in Athens. Athenians being good and noble, and where the plays were staged, agree, but the wrinkle is that a virgin sacrifice is required, which one daughter of Heracles nobly agrees to provide. There is a battle. Eurystheus is captured, and despite an agreement to spare him, Heracles's wife is delighted to obtain revenge against Eurystheus, proving that his insight about the wisdom of ending the line of Heracles was accurate all along.There was a whole bunch here for ancient Greeks to chew over on long Greek nights. I can imagine them turning over and over the issues of fate, destiny, conflicting duties for which there is no answer, and the machinations of the gods who always seem to be somewhere behind these conundra.
5836039798	This short Greek tragedy leaves me breathless and pained. Since the beginning we face the moral dilemma of Medea — the desire to bring avenge to Jason’s betrayal of oath and her children’s lives. Medea in an extreme situation, facing exile and homelessness without friend, has enormous pressure to make a decision. Medea, the alien in Corinth, has to be her own agency. The chorus in the play are as if the voice in the audience’s head, commenting on Medea’s decision, switching from sympathizing with Medea to appalled warning against her killing of her own children. Children, especially sons, are especially crucial to the Greeks as they claim heritage to the household. As important as sons to their fathers, the chorus makes a comment on how children could be burdens for women, which is quite a radical position at that age. But Medea, the “barbarian” in words of Jason and the Greeks, struggles against the moral expectation on women. (My heart bleed in grief as the reader even though I anticipated the ending.) In Greek mythology, there’s a inclination of sons killing father, yet fewer instance there is for infanticides. Euripides uses drama as a media to present with the unconventional and stretch the audience morality into an inquiry, and violence is what brings the audience close to the matter. The ending closes with Medea in the gold chariots, unpunished, and even more glorified as if emancipated from her suffering. She breaks the chain upon moral conduct and yet has not received punishment. Where is the role of gods in this story? Zeus and the gods are often mentioned for praying justice, yet they seemed aloof. The chaos of the social morality attributes to the wars and social change in Euripides time. I’m still trying to catch a breath and take a step back from the play that leaves me gasping for air. But that probably means Euripides did a great job. :-)
3546954748	Amid the flurry of feminist Greek myth re-tellings constantly hitting the shelves, I enjoyed reading this collection of Euripides' plays, which focus on familiar characters from the Trojan War and the Age of Heroes. A criticism frequently levelled against the writers of classical antiquity is that women in these stories are passive and marginalised, in favour of celebrating male (martial or athletic) prowess. Certainly, the female characters in these plays are trapped by cultural circumstances and shockingly ill-used, but I was intrigued by the central role Euripides accords them. Each of the three plays is named after its female protagonist and, with the exception of Helen, whom I found tedious, the women in question are assertive, angry, and transgressive, more akin to Furies than the dutiful wives and daughters one might expect to encounter in such texts. They are, of course, punished for such transgressions, but I still appreciate how vivid and well-realised these women are as characters."Medea" is my favourite of the three plays; the eponymous heroine is a complex character whose descent into madness is utterly mesmeric. I particularly recommend watching the National Theatre production that stars the phenomenal Helen McCrory; it's one of the best live performances I've ever seen. I really enjoyed "Electra" as well, but "Helen" was dull, hence my rating of three, rather than four, stars.
6209501693	** spoiler alert ** 4.0 - All of the plays in this collection were tragedies, but I enjoyed all of them the same. I especially appreciate how three of these stories focused on women and that Euripides painted all these focal women with a sympathetic light. Although he detailed the way they murdered, he also did a great job showcasing how their grief and suffering pushed them to do so. These definitely aren’t by any means icons of feminism, but these plays do feel much more lenient and contemplative towards women than other texts from this time. I also enjoyed each play for its individual story; Medea’s revenge against Jason for marrying a princess, Hecabe’s triumph over the man who killed her last remaining child, Electra’s rage against those who killed her father, and the brutal detailings of Heracles’s horrifying murders. As with most Ancient Greek texts, there is a lot of death and murder, but I find that I didn’t mind it as much in these plays as in other pieces I’ve read due to the well showcased emotional turbulence the titular characters face.
4601442862	Is it just me, or is Euripides the most feminist of writers, not just in the classical age but also of today? Heroic women stand front-centre of all the stories in this volume— Alcestis, Medea, Alcmene, Phaedra whose tales are told with so much sympathy and understanding. It was eye-opening for me to see that even though the conventions may be patriarchal— the writer’s heart clearly lies with the women and their plight. He highlights their injustices and their perspective. I enjoyed this so much.
4958662204	The original vengeful woman. No one does it like her. Is she unhinged? Yes can I defend her actions? No. But if you vilify this woman one more time in my presence I will throw you off a cliff. Medea haters are misogynists and this statement needs no elaboration. You slay them girlboss queen!(Wish I read a more poetic translation the first time tho.)
7484148584	[ 4.25 ]i had SO much fun reading this! i highly recommend it for greek myth enthusiasts!
6197595014	“then wipe off on me all your uncleanness, all; i do not shrink from it.”
5555781738	To quote Karen, happy Mother’s Day Medea. Killer of her own children
8108864251	Medea: 4.75 - Euripides was spitting bars again and again.
4230449324	this was a book full of gossip, telenovelas be like
4373277719	Medea - 5/5Hecabe - 4/5Electra - 3/5Heracles - 3/5
2956016151	Alcestis: 4/5The Medea: 5/5The Heracleidea: 3.5/5Hippolytus: 3.5/5
4844770752	4.5
6364980117	Medea, Hecabe and Electra are the original girl bosses. Also, Theseus is a true bro.
5731519496	"Manhandled from a foreign land like so much pirate loot, here I have no mother, brother, relative, no one to offer me a port, a refuge from catastrophe."
5217876332	only read medea but i own this copy so wanted to mark as owned
7242164047	One of the best plays ever made
5770210271	loved the first 2 plays but the other 2 were based on myths i wasn't really interested in
7523438281	Medea is mother🧍‍♀️
6584453924	My new favorite classic text. I really enjoyed how Euripides told them.
5952418918	She's just a badass and Jason needs to respect that
7284495616	Greek playwright number three! There are four plays in this book.Medea: This seems to set the tone for the anthology. The intro mentions Euripides seems to be concerned with vengeance, but I'd go a bit further and suggest his primary theme is female wrath. Medea is the brutal pinnacle of female wrath, willing to kill her own children, her husband's new bride, and the bride's father in order to destroy her faithless husband's life. Then she leaves in a chariot pulled by dragons. Epic.Hecabe: Concerns the fate of Troy's queen in the wake of the fall of Troy. Reduced to slavery, her children dead, she still finds a way to extract violent vengeance on a man who wronged her. There's some tension here between the Greek world-view and our modern sensibilities. Agamemnon comments on how "unlucky" poor Hecabe is - when he is the very man who burned her city, killed her family and enslaved her! To the ancient Greeks all this was the doing of the gods - had they not willed Troy to fall, it never would have - but a modern audience is likely to find Agamemnon disingenuous. There's another funny-weird moment, when Agamemnon comes across the commotion, sees Hecabe's victim crawling from her tent, blinded and furious...and basically tells the guy "Chill out dude, I need to hear both sides of the story." My man, how can someone who just had their eyes stabbed out be expected to chill??Electra: This is the third version of this episode I've read, and in some places responds specifically to Sophocles' version. The sensible sister disappears in Euripides' telling - there's no room for a moderating female character in this battle of vengeance between Electra and Clytaemnestra. Orestes instead serves as the voice for moderation, the hapless young man caught between these two battling women. While so many characters in the play insist that Clytaemnestra's death is just, the mood of the play seems to suggest otherwise. Perhaps if Electra had been more willing to hear out her mother, the bloodshed could have been avoided. Or, perhaps, the gods demanded Clytaemnestra must die, regardless of human reservations.Heracles: This story opens with Megara, her children, and her elderly father in law praying for salvation from the invaders ravaging her city. It seemed out of place at first, as it appeared to be a classic tale of the strong oppressing the weak. But then Iris and Madness appear, both female deities, sent by Hera to bring Heracles down in his moment of triumph. There's a couple of those human moments that remind us that despite the thousands of years that separate us, we share a common humanity with the ancient Greeks. First is Heracles' fatherly gentleness with his sons, the other is the comforting friendship Theseus shows when Heracles is at his lowest. We might have completely different world-views, but friendship and love for one's children are a constant.I find the preoccupation with female rage very interesting. I've commented before that Greek art seems to acknowledge the humanity of women, and the artists seem to be aware that women suffer at the hands of men and the patriarchal society they live under. Perhaps these works represent a fear - of what might happen should their wives or mothers or daughters one day refuse to take the abuse patiently, and instead decide to take revenge.
5316679028	La mejor tragedia griega para mí, habla sobre el amor según la mentalidad de la época y la ira femenina. Eso sí, se nota (como siempre) que Medea está escrita por un hombre, aún con todo, se lee en un momento y se disfruta todo el rato.
172187782	Medea is the story of Medea, wife to Jason (of Jason and the Argonauts, Jason and the Golden Fleece) etc. Medea aided Jason on his quest for the Golden Fleece, falling passionately in love with him and even killing her brother and (reputedly) dismembering his body so that they could flee her father who, being a good and just father, stopped to pick up the pieces of his son. Medea is generally regarded as a very intense, passionate woman. She’s the granddaughter of the Sun God Helios and therefore, not entirely human. Her love for Jason is all consuming and eventually, destructive.In this play, Medea and Jason have fled to Corinth after the happenings of the Golden Fleece, where the King of Corinth, Creon, has given his daughter, Princess Glauce, to Jason to be his wife. Jason sets aside Medea to marry Glauce, rendering Medea so unstable that Creon correctly fears for his daughters life and orders Medea and her two children by Jason into exile. Medea, a rather master manipulator, asks for, and is granted by Creon, a day before she has to go into exile and this is all she needs to put her plan of vengeance into action.Jason then enters to try and reason with Medea, explaining his motives for setting her aside and choosing to marry Glauce. They amount to basically the political gain but he swears that he would’ve made everyone ‘one big happy family’ and that if Medea hadn’t been so unreasonable, she could’ve stayed in Corinth (I think the inference is, as his mistress) and that her and the children would be well looked after and taken care of and that there would be no hostilities. Medea, as the spurned woman, rejects him and orders him leave but as her plan forms in her mind, she summons him back and asks him if her children might remain behind, be raised by him and not suffer for her sins. Jason agrees and Medea sends the two children to the Princess bearing gifts, golden robes and a crown, which are poisoned. She correctly guesses that Glauce will accept the gifts, being swayed by the beauty of the gold, which the Princess does. The gifts immediately poison her, stripping her flesh from her bones, melting her and as her distraught father rushes in and gathers her up, he is poisoned too.Medea then decides that her two children must die, to make her revenge on Jason complete. Rather than leave them behind to either offer him some comfort in his grief, or possibly killed by the Corinthians for their innocent part in her plot, Medea murders them both with her own hands and then denies Jason the chance to bury them, taking their bodies with her as she flees to Athens in a chariot gifted to her by her grandfather the Sun God.Medea was first performed in 431BC. It’s a short play, only about 30 pages in length and surprisingly easy to read. The hardest part for me was forgetting about it being 2011 and trying to read it in the way people watching it at the time would’ve taken it. Medea herself is portrayed as a sympathetic, albeit unstable character, who has married for love (unusual in this time) and given up everything for him. She killed her brother, she fled her homeland, has gone into exile, will never see her family again, all for Jason, only to be cast aside by him. In the time men could do this and women had very little say in these types of matters. Medea is considered a feminist play as the sympathetic portrayal of Medea relates to her helplessness in the male-dominated society. All her choices are taken away from her – her husband abandons her and then she is forced to go into exile. As she sees it, she has only one option left open to her now. That of revenge.Still it’s hard as a mother (and as a rational human being) to excuse her actions reading it in this day and age. Her revenge is so complete, murdering Jason’s new wife, who presumably is just going along with her father’s wishes and marrying the man he has given to her, and also the King (possibly inadvertently there). Medea then goes one step further and murders her own children, which is where any sympathy for her ended. She had already secured an asylum earlier in the play, in exchange for helping the King of Athens with an infertility issue, and could’ve easily escaped with her children. Instead she chooses to murder them, and although she does claim so that they do not come to harm from others, I believe the majority of her reasoning is to further injure Jason. He loses not only his new young Princess wife, but also his two sons.Jason himself is portrayed in the play as smug and kind of over-confident. Clearly although Medea proved her capacity for devotion (and also the lengths she will go to in order to get what she wants) in killing her own brother to assist him, he didn’t seem particularly worried that she would turn that vicious streak towards him, so he obviously wasn’t too bright either. Even the King was more wary of what she could do, but he erred gravely in granting her the day’s grace before her exile.
