3752542970	Thank you so much, dear Samantha Downing! You did it again! You fried my last healthy brain cells standing! This is outstandingly smart, extremely high-tension, and surprisingly twisty! This engrossing, thrilling journey reflects the author’s dark, sarcastic, and very smart sense of humor, guaranteeing you sit on the edge of your seat and enjoy your wild ride! What the hell is happening at one of the most reputable schools in the city? There is a mad scientist lurking around the Belmont Academy, finding the strangest ways to threaten the well-being of teachers, students, and poor, dedicated parents! Imagine Walter White chose to stay at school instead of teaming up with Jess to produce pure meth at the trailer and turning into Heisenberg.Teddy Crutcher is the evil soul twin of Walter White, who chose English as a major instead of chemistry (he chooses breeding poisonous plants in his backyard as a hobby, just like mixing them in his lovely colleagues’ drinks and seeing the deadly results as cracking up his villainous laughter). He has a big purpose to punish the privileged, spoiled students who take everything they want without showing enough effort, as most of the students come from poverty, fighting tooth and nail to get a proper college degree just like he was. You don’t want to be on his sh*t list if you want to get accepted by the colleges you’d dreamt of or have a less problematic high school experience because he can turn your life into hell! Dear Teddy, with bleeding cuticles, an unhealthy dairy consumption habit, taking tours around the Belmont Academy, giving fake smiles to his colleagues who were the highly achieved old students, and even though he’s been awarded as the teacher of the year, he will always be an outsider of this secluded environment. After mysteriously being dumbed by his wife, he’s been married for 13 years. His only focus is helping his students to reach their full academic potential. That’s for their OWN GOOD! Of course, performing his chemical tests on his colleagues seems like his other hobby, which gets out of control and results in one of the parents’ deaths. Oops! Now he has to correct his mistake by poisoning his real target to save the wrongly convicted person. More lives are at stake, and there’s no need to worry. There are enough deadly plants to feed his enemies! But his plans can be derailed by his old student, Fallon, who obsessively blames him for everything going definitely so wrong with her life! And dear Zach, who is the latest victim on his sh*t list, has to find his way to get out of this uncontrollable madness! Let the chemical games begin! Don’t worry about Teddy! He’s never going to be in danger. He is the one who is in danger! This is one of the best entertaining, smart, riveting, addictive, unputdownable, crazy things I’ve read this year! I loved every second of it! All of the characters seriously suffer from warped moral compasses. They’re needy, greedy, self-centered, and dealing with their insecurities in strange ways, which made them more unique,one of a kind, and irritating! The conclusion was deliciously smart and fair. My neighbors can still hear my villanelle laughs! As always, I’m giving my five blazing, clever, dazzling, epic, engaging, and enjoyable stars! As a big fan of the author, I can honestly say she never disappoints me with her fantastic works! Special thanks to NetGalley and Berkley Publishing for sharing this digital reviewer copy I have been waiting for in exchange for my honest opinions.
4151649590	No one told him that right and wrong aren’t always what they appear to be. He had to learn that for himself. He also had to learn that lying isn’t an option; it’s a necessity. This book pulled me out of a reading slump that lasted for months so I'm obviously going to be feeling warm and fuzzy about it. For Your Own Good was such an easy comfort-read for me. Because of the multiple third person perspectives, the reader is in on most of the shenanigans, meaning that there aren't any real twists or a whole lot to discover. Still, though, I found following all the characters, watching them skirt closer to the answers, almost but not quite figure it out, walk straight into a deathtrap... quite exciting. Sometimes knowing stuff the characters don't can be a very compelling narrative technique-- especially when you're screaming "don't go in there!" in your head. "Entitlement has a particular stench. Pungent, bitter. Almost brutal." For Your Own Good is set in Belmont Academy, an elite private school where rich parents buy their children opportunities, directly and indirectly. One teacher is Teddy Crutcher and he has a bit of an axe to grind. See, Teddy never got the same opportunities these spoiled entitled brats did and he sees it as his job to impart some real life lessons. However, things get a little out of his control and mistakes lead to disasters lead to casualties. But this book isn't just about Teddy. There is a complex web of characters and relationships here, motives and ambitions all overlapping and warring with each other. Seems that no one is entirely blameless and everyone has a few secrets they're hiding. What fun!I've not read Downing's other stuff but perhaps I will now.
4361168198	If the world wasn't filled with so many incompetent people, Teddy would have so much more time to concentrate on the important things. Like teaching. Teddy Crutcher has just been awarded Teacher of the Year, and it is well deserved. He always challenges his students to be the best they can be, even if he has to resort to unconventional methods. After all, isn't that why these students pay so much money to go to Belmont Academy?Right off the bat, this feels like a compulsive read. It was easy to get sucked into the story and to keep turning the pages. With its short chapters, I felt like I could always read just a few more pages, and the outrageous happenings kept me constantly guessing and surprised.However, this is definitely a book that prioritizes its shock factor above everything else. In particular, the characters are very thinly sketched, with everyone being some form of crazy, but that is their only real personality trait. As a result, they don't feel fully formed, and I had trouble caring about them. Their crazy actions started to feel random, as if you could swap them between characters and still have the story make the same amount of sense.Reading this genre can sometimes feel like you're witnessing a race in which books compete to outdo one another in the sheer insanity of their characters and happenings. And because we've seen it all by this point, books have to be ever more outrageous to shock us. And this book definitely deserves to be at the top of that pile.It's a good one to pick up if you're in the mood for a diversion, and I certainly had fun with it. But with its shallow characterizations and fairly superficial storylines, everything is already starting to blur together only hours after finishing it.~~~~~~~~~~~~See also, my thoughts on:My Lovely WifeToo Old for This~~~~~~~~~~~~✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧
4090132890	Teddy Crutcher is Teacher of the Year at Belmont Academy, an elite prep school. He believes that it is his mission to mold and shape his young students into better people instead of the annoying, smug, entitled pupils that they are. But these "lessons" don't earn Teddy friends. In fact, a few people have their sights set on Teddy. Who will win, Teddy or the students?Coming soon to HBO Max, For Your Own Good was a delightful thriller that was written to be a page-turner. This book had many different twists, and Downing definitely did not play it safe. This book did not follow the traditional thriller plotline so it was very unique. Additionally, I really admired the craftsmanship of the writing, the complexity that must have been involved in mapping out how it would ultimately unfold and not just having a twist for the sake of having a twist, but one that made sense and was also shocking. Also, this book had good character development: the characters weren't all good or all bad, they were human. Overall, if you love a mystery/thriller, pick this book up! It is chock full of surprises and is a breeze to read.*Thank you, NetGalley, for a free copy of this book in exchange for my fair and honest opinion.2024 Reading ScheduleJan MiddlemarchFeb The Grapes of WrathMar Oliver TwistApr Madame BovaryMay A Clockwork OrangeJun PossessionJul The Folk of the Faraway Tree CollectionAug Crime and PunishmentSep Heart of DarknessOct Moby-DickNov Far From the Madding CrowdDec A Tale of Two CitiesConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta
3483620949	A+ Samantha Downing! You are the Valedictorian! It was SO MUCH FUN to get inside the head of your latest diabolical character, Teddy Crutcher-TEACHER OF THE YEAR” at the prestigious private school, the Belmont Academy! He feels the award is long overdue but finally, he is receiving the attention that he so rightfully deserves! He is truly worthy of the award...he would DO ANYTHING for his students. That is, the ones he likes. If you are not the “teacher’s pet” however, he might just have to teach you a lesson. And, he won’t accept bribes from your “well meaning” parents, either. At the end of the day, he will watch the news and celebrate his achievements with a nice cold glass of MILK. I can just picture his “milk mustache” now. 🙄But, even Teddy can make a FEW mistakes. “Oops!” And, because there are SO MANY incompetent people in the World, he has to be the one to fix things. SIGH. ENTERTAINING from COVER TO COVER, this book is filled with CRAZY surprises and PLENTY of casualties, but I am going to leave this review VAGUE, so that YOU can be just as shocked as I was! Your assignment? GET a copy of it today! AVAILABLE NOW! YOU WON’T WANT TO MISS THIS ONE! Thank You to Samantha Downing, and Elisha at Berkley, for inviting me to read an early copy! As you can see, this book went straight to the top of my 📚and it was my pleasure to provide a candid review!
3934836489	Deliciously Devious “Someone has to save the kids. It’s for their own good.”The teacher of the year at an elite prep school takes pride in teaching, but when a popular student, a fellow teacher, and a parent get in his way, he will stop at NOTHING to teach them lessons for their own good. A variety of characters offer their perspectives on the events at Belmont Academy, aka #murder high : Teddy Crutcher: Teacher of the Year whose teaching methods are less than conventional, as he molds events to fit his desire, even if it means crossing the line into dangerous territory. Most of the book centers around Teddy and his very dark mind.Zach Ward: Star student who finds himself in Crutcher’s crosshairs.Sonia Benjamin: A teacher who pushes Crutcher’s buttons.Fallon: Crutcher’s former student who is out for revenge.Frank: A math teacher struggling with morality.The characters are fun to hate. Although there are many narrators, some play larger roles than others. It is easy to keep track of who is who, as characters have distinguished voices and vary on the evil scale. Beware that because the events take place at a high school, there is a bit of a YA perspective at times. I wish we had fewer narrators so that we could get deeper into Crutcher’s mind. He is a fascinating character, and I wanted to know more about him. I had so much fun reading this! Essentially, it’s a large-scale game of cat and mouse. At times, it’s not clear who is out to destroy whom, which is part of the fun. Who will win in the end is constantly up in the air. I didn’t love the ending, but I loved watching these crazy and nefarious games play out. If you are looking for depth, you aren’t going to get it from this book. What you will get is an entertaining and sinister read filled with dark minds and lots of twists and turns.
4026882947	this book is a trip, let me tell you what.there are so many characters, so many POVs, and the chapters are short so theres a lot of switching back and forth, it got to the point where i was half way through and wondering what the heck was going on. lol.i think the interesting thing about this story is the reader is kept aware of everything that is happening as the multiple POVs provide all of the details. so the story becomes less about the mystery and more about if everyone is going to get away with everything. some readers may not like that but, as a teacher, i found it shocking how much i was actually relating to the messed up staff at belmont academy. this is a super quick and really fun story that any fan of academic thrillers will enjoy. ↠ 4 stars
3694441286	Three stars = GOOD for this thriller.Since I didn’t really enjoy Samantha’s previous book He Started It, I went into this one with low expectations. And, unsurprisingly, the very issue that bothered me in that book resurfaced here too. Instead of repeating what worked, I’ll focus on where this one stumbled for me:Unlike this novel, I love when thrillers keep me on edge and toss in shocking twists at the end. Here, the story basically spelled out exactly what would happen and how it would finish. While I did appreciate the villain’s perspective (that part was unique), the constant narrative switches threw things off balance.The element of expectation was missing. In a thriller, I want to feel thrilled—but knowing upfront who the bad guy was and what they were up to sucked the tension right out.The book tried to raise moral questions about right vs. wrong, teachers in society, and the role of education—but most events felt more like cheap thrills than meaningful commentary.And the police? Absolutely useless. Arresting Courtney (the only character I actually liked) made zero sense. Zach was okay until the very last second, when he inexplicably crumbled.Teddy, our so-called “psycho” protagonist, never quite landed. His actions should have been chilling, but too often they felt… meh. For a main character, he was oddly uninteresting.In the end, this was equal parts fun and equal parts meh. A quick read, sure, but not the edge-of-your-seat thriller I was hoping for.
3620505931	HAPPY PUBLICATION DAY!Samantha Downing’s latest novel was one of my most anticipated reads this year so far, and I am thrilled to say it did not disappoint! English teacher Teddy Crutcher has just won the coveted Teacher of the Year award at the private school where he teaches. He feels he should’ve won it a long time ago because he works so hard at pushing his students to be successful. Not everyone appreciates his approach and methodology, but it’s really for their own good.After the suspicious death of a parent on campus occurs, someone starts looking into Teddy’s life. He’s not alarmed though. He’s too focused on his students tapping into their potential. If only the students, their parents, and his coworkers started treating him like the gift that he is and stayed out of his way. I’m keeping my synopsis brief as I believe it’s best to go into this one blind. I absolutely LOVED this book. It’s fun, dark, and twisted...with some wicked revelations revealed along the way. Downing has the most fantastic way of gripping the reader and making them flip the pages as fast as possible. There was more than one point where I said to myself as I read this, “Just one more chapter.” This is a compulsive and addicting book that ramps up the suspense throughout and to the very last page. I honestly didn’t want it to end, and enjoyed every minute as the bodies piled up. I highly recommend this one, which I have no doubt will be another huge success for Downing. Thank you to Berkley, who provided me with a widget to download an ARC via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. This will be published on 7/20/21.Review also posted at: https://bonkersforthebooks.wordpress.com
3661355730	Review posted to blog: https://books-are-a-girls-best-friend...Well, Snap! Samantha Downing Does it AGAIN! In this Wholly Original, Wildly Wicked, Absolutely Devious Thriller, Ms. Downing delivers a premise that will rock you to your core. . The BEST Part?: It is like NOTHING you have ever read before.Masterfully plotted, with brilliant character development, and a truly deceitful, unscrupulous character, “For Your Own Good” is a novel full of cheating, duplicity, deception, and falsehoods.Oh and Murder. Let’s not forget that! It’s a novel chock full of Murder too. From that, you can’t run or hide.When it comes to what takes place at Belmont Academy, what is real and what is not? Who can you trust to have your best interests at heart, if not those in charge at an Institution of Higher Learning? One word of advice, if I may, however? Be alert. Be very alert. Oh, and one more: If you’re reading this, go into it blind. Your enjoyment of it will grow exponentially.A tad sick and seriously demented “For Your Own Good” may just be my favorite of Samantha Downing’s novels to date (even though I LOVED “My Lovely Wife” and believe I described it as “A Brand of Crazy All its Own”). Why do you ask? Because the premise of this is unlike anything I have ever encountered. So engrossed was I, that once I started this I was unable to come back up for air until I read the last page. Mind-blowing, and utterly fabulous, “For Your Own Good” is the best thriller I’ve read all year. I highly recommend this masterful novel to one and all. A new addition to my Goodreads Best-of-List for 2021! A buddy read with Ms. Kaceey that both of us loved.Thank you to Ms. Elisha at Berkley Publishing Group (and NetGalley) for the arc. Published on Goodreads, Twitter, and Instagram.
3692258417	Just amazing, Samantha Downing doesn't miss
3628706172	"Being loved is one thing, being hated is another, but there is nothing worse than being ignored." School is in session! Grab your pencils, make sure your laptop is charged, and be prepared to learn because Samantha Downing is at the board, teaching us all how it's done!!!!!Teddy Crutcher is teacher of the year at the esteemed Belmont Academy. He teaches the best and the brightest. But they must earn their grades. He can't be bought or influenced. He is tough on his students - but it is for their own good. He wants them to excel, to succeed, to have bright futures. What else would one expect from the Teacher of the Year? I don't think I have had this much fun reading a book - EVER! There are quite a few characters which distinct and contribute to the story. Their POV's give us more insight into their thoughts, motivations and relationships with others. We also get to see what they say vs. what they know. With the various characters there are minor subplots being told as well. All come together brilliantly in the end.Downing had me on my toes the entire book! Like her other books, For Your Own Good was well written, compelling and had me glued to my seat, completely immersed in this book. The pacing is spot on, there is never any down time, the characters are interesting, annoying, devilish, devious and so fun to read. Teddy was a character I loved to hate. I'm purposely not mentioning other characters as I feel it is best to know only the bare basics going into this book.Will you get schooled reading this book? Readers know a lot, but we don't know everything! Downing has her lesson plan, the bell has rung, you better pray you are the teacher’s pet, because by the time class is over, you will be dazzled by her brilliance. What a deliciously, diabolical, delightful and fun read! The hype is real!!!Highly Recommend.Read more of my reviews at www.openbookposts.com
3872687052	4.5 STARS This comedy of errors is a murderous mashup! Uh-hem, the teacher knows best and Teddy is the teacher, so have a seat and definitely don't be a smarty pants !! The bodies are piling up at Belmont Academy and the teachers and students are all on pins and needles. Except one of them, no reason for panic when you know best. Just calm down, people die every day (at least at Belmont). They are even trending #HomicideHigh....The showy behavior of this teacher, had me cracking up! Teddy takes the cake, and I'm giving him the cake. The whole cake! After all, he is Teacher of the Year, and he has the plaque to prove it!!I had so much fun reading this wild, campy, vindictive and murderous mystery! If you enjoy some outrageous characters and writing that flows page after page and like to solve murder mysteries, give this one a try. You've been warned! Thanks to NG and Berkley for my advanced review copy! OUT on July 20,2021
4138003127	Oh, Teddy, you absolutely deserved the Teacher of the Year Award, and have the plaque to prove it. If only you received the respect and accolades you deserve. You devious, cunning man! You just took 1st place for my favorite psychopath! What better place to use your finely honed skills than a private elite school? No one escapes your solution to problems. You will do anything for your students. At least the ones who deserve it. It’s all for their own good, even if they don’t understand. Right? Whoops, you sometimes make a little mistake but collateral damage is nothing to worry about. You will fix it. And that’s all I will say about the plot! It’s such fun to discover it for yourself. Just know Teddy isn’t the only devious character at play here at #HomicideHigh It was SO FUN to be inside Teddy’s head, and listen to his thought processes. The other characters were just as fun and over-the-top as Teddy, and kept me laughing at the dark humor. I haven’t had this much fun reading about a group of characters in a very long time. I listened to the audio and the narrator was EXCELLENT in the role, making a terrific book even better. I struggled to press pause and went looking for projects around the house just to get more listening time. This unique and deliciously devious story grabbed me from the beginning and didn't let go until the very last page, and then I was sorry it was over. I don’t give out 5 stars lightly, and this will be on my list of top books of 2021. * thanks to Regina for pointing out the narrator is David Pittu, who also narrated The Goldfinch, another book I could not stop listening to. He truly is incredible! • This was a buddy read with Marialyce and one we both loved!
3896401115	For Your Own Good, Samantha Downing’s latest and (IMO) greatest novel, is a 3D thriller. It’s deranged. It’s devious. It’s delicious. If you read a lot in this genre, you begin notice that authors have to come up with increasingly ridiculous scenarios and character motivations to top anything previously written. What’s great about this one is that Downing went ALL IN and bought a first class, one-way ticket on the crazy train. This prep school-set story is so over the top that anything goes, and thus readers never have to deal with pesky “that would never happen” thoughts. At the fictional Belmont Academy, you better watch your back. (Well, and your beverages. And the food. And the air you’re breathing. Heck, better just watch everything.)I kinda loved it, and if you want to escape to a world that’ll make our real one seem like candyland, I think you will too. Blog: https://www.confettibookshelf.com/
3620017348	3.5 stars. Wild, shocking and twisty!If you’re looking for a fun, creepy, bonkers book to get lost in, this is it! It’s compulsively readable and highly entertaining in the most addictive, silly, crazy and ridiculous way!This novel revolves around a prep school with devious and conniving staff and students. Every character had a sneaky, deceitful, evil side that kept me shocked and curious to see how they would fit into the twisted tale. I simply cannot pick who was the worst! I loved the short, tension-filled chapters that were easy to breeze through. This book is one where you can simply sit back and be entertained without having to think too much. The story unfolds through third person narrative which I had trouble connecting with as I felt it kept me at a distance from the storyline. I also have issues with implausible scenarios and this novel had many which kept me from feeling fully invested. However, the characters are so extremely crazy and unlikeable that I just HAD to know what would happen next. Though this wasn’t a huge winner for me, it is well-loved by many early reviewers and I can completely understand why. Give it a try and see what you think - I promise you’ll have fun with it!Thank you to Berkley for my review copy!
3865101578	3.5 STARS"Entitlement has a particular stench. Pungent, bitter. Almost brutal."I will say this: Samantha Downing has a way of writing unlikable characters that makes you unable to turn away. The age old "can't stop watching the train wreck" is entirely true here, and between the short chapters and the constant shifting of views that give birth to plot twist after plot twist, For Your Own Good is a compulsive read. Her mysteries are fun to try and solve, because all her energy isn't poured into one outlandish twist near the end of the book; instead, she spreads her talent over the course of the novel and gives readers little surprises along the way, which in my humble opinion is much more entertaining and intelligent. Whether you completely solve the case or not isn't of concern; it's the journey along the read that's important, and Downing delivers in that aspect.Teddy is Teacher of the Year at Belmont Academy, and he cares deeply for his students and the institution. If he has to go the extra mile to ensure they get the most out of their education and simultaneously knock them down a peg, that's just collateral in the big picture. You know from the first chapter that Teddy is some sort of sociopath, but is he a murderer? And what other sociopaths will cross paths with him along the duration of this story? I really enjoyed how brief and edgy each chapter feels; there are many different narrators along the way, and this added a really cool element to the story that would have been missing if we hadn't received certain information through a particular character's lens. I think my main concern is that the big climax felt rushed and not wholly satisfactory, which is very likely to be the point. I just wish we had received some answers to a few more of the questions I had; the problem with having such a large cast of characters is that you have way more to wrap up by the end, and the conclusion here is pretty abrupt and sparse. Again, this was likely done on purpose and is purely a personal preference on my part. Another thing that caught me off guard was a major continuity error on the first page of chapter 55 in the finished hardcover copy. Grammatical errors don't tend to bother me, and I really don't point them out in reviews, because it's just not my style and I'm typically reading an early, unfinished copy any way, but this was kind of a major error that I'm surprised made it past editing, especially since I had to go back and reread that page a few times to ensure I wasn't missing some major plot twist. 😂Overall, an enjoyable read! I'm looking forward to whatever Downing cooks up next. *Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy.
3265623233	2.5 stars2021 is the year almost all my favorite authors have disappointed me in one way or another. Can we skip to 2022 please?? This book left me so unsatisfied it’s unreal 😩I can’t say I completely disliked it because it still had amazing tension, but after having read My Lovely Wife and He Started It I was sure this was going to be another five stars and that I would love the unlikable characters. Maybe it’s my fault for expecting something along those lines instead of noticing right away that this book is a bit of a departure from those earlier books. Though in my defense, I also called this one boring halfway through, and that’s definitely not on me. I can pinpoint exactly what didn’t work for me in this book: the multiple povs and the way pretty much nothing was kept from the reader. I feel like having that many povs made everything slower and less impactful. All of these characters meant something to the plot, and that’s fine, but they also had a lot of stuff to say that wasn’t exactly needed.Having Teddy’s pov made the book drag too. I think this book would have worked better without it. Reading about him from the outside would have probably made the plot more intriguing, especially because I wouldn’t have had some info from the get-go.Nonetheless, I still enjoyed the twisty way this book unraveled in typical Samantha Downing fashion. My favorite character was Zach, I found him fascinating because he was a perfectly built character. His contrasting behavior and relationship with his parents sparked my interest in him from the beginning. I can see a pattern here because in every one of her books I always love this SD character type. On the other hand, I was never really interested in Teddy because I found him too annoying and a bit cartoonish, but the plot still managed to keep me on my toes for a while. Until the ending lol. I’m not a fan of how this book concluded. It wasn’t shocking or insane, just very confusing and eye roll-worthy, It’s probably going to be a very divisive ending and I’m curious to see where other readers stand on this when the book comes out. Thank you to Micheal Joseph for the arc, I’m so glad I got to read this book early! ❤️******I will read literally anything this woman ever writes.
3620461717	Talk about a nutso teacher!Teddy Crutcher is a teacher at a private school, the Belmont Academy. He has won the Teacher of the Year award but kids don't enjoy being in his class. He can be sarcastic and when he thinks a student is too privileged, he decides to make him suffer. He believes that by making them sweat he is doing them a favor.Enters Zach Ward, a 17-year-old student. He has the looks, he comes from money and he is liked by everyone. Zac is smart and has good grades and his family is a power couple. That is enough for Teddy to give Zac a B on his latest paper to bring down his GPA.Besides, picking on a student, Teddy also has a secret pastime. A pastime that Teddy believes is his duty. Some teachers need to be more mellow, some need to be more alert, and some need to die!Just when Teddy thinks he is getting away with everything, an ex-student Fallon is back to watch him. Was Teddy narcissistic and unrepentant? Sure. Was he a psychopath? Sure. Yet, I was avidly awaiting the next chapter and devouring every second of his craziness.Once again, Samantha Downing has done it and For Your Own Good takes you on a rewarding thriller ride. I know, with so many books out there sometimes you just have to pick your poison. Grab this one, it's worth it.Cliffhanger: No4/5 FangsA complimentary copy was provided by Berkley via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.MrsLeif's Two Fangs About It | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram
3686897914	almost a year later i haven’t reread this book but i’m coming back to rate it 5 stars because i literally have been thinking about this book for a year straight. everyone in this book was so fucked up but i loved it, it was kinda like dark academia but with teachers and i thought that was fun. the pacing was a bit off sometimes and i think the only thing that stopped me from giving this book 5 stars was that i thought it was gonna be plot twisty but that’s my own fault considering you learn everything as the book goes on so there was nothing to really get plot twist from. i love that everything tied together in the end. such a fun read.
4045421605	‘Welcome to Belmont Academy, a prestigious school where we expect and get the very best from our students. Let me introduce you to Mr Teddy Crutcher our Teacher of the Year and about whom I think it’s fair to say, he really enjoys teaching lessons ....’ just ask Zach, a straight A student, or then there’s Fallon or .....Samantha Downing does it again, knocking it right out of the park!!! Gripping, dark, funny, incisive and sharply observed from start to finish. The head count in this one is spectacularly high, the authorities are inept, some of the characters are devious, cunning or wicked or all three! Some are fist clenchingly entitled and arrogant and a couple you root for but one thing is for sure, they are definitely not dull! Some of the parents are awful, especially the mums, I thought mine had a tendency to the waspish but some of these make her utterly stingless! They take the whole pack of biscuits. The plot twists are excellent and so what more can you ask for! The further you get into the fast paced storyline it just gets more and more entertaining and it’s impossible to put down. It’s a wickedly, dastardly and darkly funny thriller. The ending is unexpected and absolutely brilliant with just desserts doled out! Overall this is an easy five star read. My advice is to go in blind with this one as it’s such fun that any preconceptions would spoil the lunatic, clever rollercoaster ride. This will be a top read of 2021! Highly recommended. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Penguin Michael Joseph for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.
4181267306	4.0 stars —I wasn’t a big fan of the first novel I read by Samantha Downing, “My Lovely Wife.” But, I did enjoy the author’s writing style and the unexpected twists and turns that novel took. Therefore, I decided to read “For Your Own Good” when it became available at the local library. “For Your Own Good” was much more enjoyable from start to finish than “Wife”. The novel is set in an elite private school and focuses on a teacher named Teddy who has both a mean streak and is a control freak. While initially the reader learns that Teddy uses his position as a teacher to make life miserable for students he doesn’t like, it doesn’t take long for Teddy to take things much further when he begins experimenting with poisoning co-worker. Downing does a great job in writing from Teddy’s perspective so the reader can see just how evil Teddy is and the justifications he provides for each evil act he commits. Unlike “Wife”, Downing writes from the perspective of several normal characters which makes the evilness of Teddy all the more sinister. Only the very stupid, cheesy ending and a slow start to the novel kept me from giving it the full 5 stars. But I really did enjoy this book due to the unpredictability of the story and Downing’s ability to write so realistically from the perspective of the antagonist. It is so rare that an author can make an evil person believable that I look forward to seeing what Downing can come up with next.
3621195363	A dark, entertaining and funny academic thriller!Teacher of the year at Belmont Prep, Ted Crutcher takes his role of pushing his pupils to their academic potential very seriously. Maybe a bit too seriously, but it's all for their own good! Life would be so much easier for him if the students wouldn't be so arrogant and entitled, their parents annoying, and don't even start with the other members of staff!After enjoying My Lovely Wife and He Started It, I was highly anticipating this one, and it didn't disappoint on the black comedy front! Jam packed with hilarious insight into the staff, students and parents of an American private school. I will say, that if you are looking for a plausible and suspenseful mystery, then you won't get it, but if you are after an over the top, fun and wicked tale with a high body count, then this is your book!Told from the POVs from a large cast of characters, most of whom are wholly unlikeable, self serving, deceitful and mean, it was fun seeing all of their reactions to the madness. Because of the way it was told, there was no real twists, since we know who is behind the awful happenings. It was fun following the different characters though, and watching some of them trying to figure out what was occurring! I did like Zach Ward, one of Teddy's students, who played a major part in the story. The pressure him, and some of his fellow students were under was crazy! From the first few pages, I realised that our teacher of the year was a vindictive sociopath, who delighted in messing with both his colleagues and his students, and some of his antics made me laugh! Honestly, at first I wasn't sure how to rate this, it was absolutely bonkers! It's not my favourite book so far by Samantha Downing, but I still had fun turning the pages in the short chapters of this quick read, and I laughed at some of the crazy scenarios and terrible characters.How useless were the police and FBI though?!I was left thinking that a) my teachers were not as bad as I remember them being and b) coffee pods will now make me nervous 🤣I've read that this will be on the screen on HBO Max, and think it would make a really fun series, so that's exciting!Available now!Many thanks to NetGalley UK and Penguin Micahel Joseph UK for the ARC, in exchange for an honest review!
4324898412	My thanks to Berkley Publishing, Samantha Downing and Netgalley. So... I liked this story. It was all kinds of messed up! Which is a good thing. But, it was one of those books that rely heavily upon nearly everybody being fairly simple. So while I did enjoy the book, it was a quick read. Like cotton candy. Easily dissolved, but too much "stupidity" leaves me with a tummy ache! Dont misunderstand me, because I would read more from this author.
3543540555	**MANY thanks to NetGalley, Berkley, and the wonderful Samantha Downing for an ARC of this book!! Now available as of 7.20, and now available in paperback!!** Kids! I don't know what's wrong with these kids today ...🎵Teddy Crutcher knows ALL about it. There is a reason why he was named Teacher of the Year, after all. The pampered elite at Belmont Academy may have parents with open pocketbooks and endless 0s on their bank account balances, but money cannot buy what Teddy has to offer (though it won't stop parents from trying to buy the perfect grades and entrance into the Ivies.)Can you put a price on his foresight? His wisdom? His devotion to Belmont as an institution and pushing each and every pupil to be their absolute best? Well...those who DESERVE it, that is. For the rest? Well, let's just say he has other ideas. Carefully laid plans. And he won't let ANYONE stand in his way...***No further synopsis needs to be provided here. You'll find out why this school quickly becomes known as Homicide High and I promise the journey will give you absolute whiplash.How do I love thy writing, Samantha Downing? Let me count the ways!*VOICE: Downing nails it, every time. Her brand of dark humor leaves me snickering (and sometimes belly laughing, I'll be honest!) every time, and the best testament to her as an author is that you can pick up one of her books, read a few chapters, and know that these characters are HERS. This is honestly what every writer in the genre should do, but so few accomplish this with style, and Samantha Downing always does. These characters run the gamut in terms of personality, but they leapt off the page, and I loved rooting for and against all of them at one point or another!*Twists: Of course, her twists are on point, fast, furious, and unexpected. She has also mastered the art of the slow reveal, designed to make the reader think you've figured something out...but showing you instead that you simply didn't have all of the information yet. So brilliant, effective, and FUN!*Chapter length: always short, but not TOO short. Such a small distinction, but it keeps her pacing pitch-perfect!*Creativity: I love that her books feel like they all belong in the same 'family' but never feel repetitive or predictable.. It leaves me feeling like I both know what to expect from her, but also that I'll be surprised over and over (and over!) again. The ending of this one was the absolute best way she could've wrapped up this tale, and I love putting a book down (or closing the digital pages) with a big smile on my face, and once again, she gave me all of those 'what a wonderful thriller' goosebumps!I have waited SO LONG to read this ARC. I had it put aside, ready and waiting to be a stunner, and it is easily my favorite thriller so far this year, by leaps and bounds. I am so excited to hear this book is being adapted for the screen and know it too will be a smashing success! Sorry Teddy, but I think Samantha deserves the "Writer of the Year' plaque for this one, full marks, and is at the TOP of her class! 5 shining gold stars! ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
4153119352	Don’t tell me what’s for my own good, Teddy. Teddy Ruxpin you are not.The teacher of the year has pulled the wool over most students and parents. A few he secretly harbours failure for and underhandedly causes those failures. Well, I will never see or drink a cup of coffee at work the same way. I will keep my pods close to me.Milk is tainted as well. Who celebrates with a glass of milk? That just indicates psychotic.A murder of a parent; a murder of a teacher; throw in a few more more murders. A few feel they did it… these people are on crack. But it’s a delightfully tasteful voyeurism read. But there are some twists that make this absurdly fun. 4⭐️
3656395541	A fast paced thriller. Teddy Crutcher is teacher of the year, but don’t get on his bad side. A great cast of characters, students, teachers and parents. The school of privileged kids Teddy teaches has many that could do with being taken down a peg or two. And Teddy decides who that will be. But when one of Teddy’s ‘plans’ for another teacher goes haywire, suddenly everyone’s secrets are coming out. This book is interesting because there’s nothing really hidden. We know who is responsible, it’s just a case of watching all the other characters rush about trying to find the killer before it’s too late. I liked the ending (view spoiler)[ Frank the maths teacher found out it was Teddy and gave him a taste of his own medicine. A good collection of smaller storylines alongside the larger tale also kept me interesting. I’d like to try some other works by this author. ***********************************Library copy available for pick up Can’t wait to dive in!************************This book is all over my feed and the reviews are incredible!!!I’m getting FOMO so now I’m in the queue for a library copy 😊 (hide spoiler)]
4267217912	Teddy Crutcher has been named Teacher of the Year at the prestigious Belmont Academy, which is long overdue if you ask him. Not that anyone has; his efforts to always go above and beyond for his students have gone unnoticed for far too long. Not to worry, as while the accolades are nice, everything he does is for his students. A few people may just have to die in the process, but sometimes you have to crack a few eggs to make an omelette, right? And they weren’t important eggs anyway, not like his students. If only they knew just how much he cared. Just what lengths he was willing to go to for them. Just how much he had done for them… for their own good, of course. Oh hello! Greetings from Last Person to Read the “It” Book-ville USA. Lovely to see you here. Just in case you’re a straggler like me and late to this one, I’d like to use this review to set expectations more so than anything else. Don't expect much nuance or depth here, and prepare yourself for a bit of a YA feel. This, my friends, is not your run of the mill suspense/thriller. I honestly don’t even know what genre to call it. If this book were a song it would be I Believe in a Thing Called Love by The Darkness. (You’re welcome for the reminder of that absolute gem) It’s not quite satire, but man does it edge up close to it. This is just pure over the top, silly fun. I highly recommend saving this for both when you need a mindless pick-me-up, and when you have a good chunk of time to devote to a book. For Your Own Good is one that will ideally be devoured in a single sitting in my opinion as not only is it very fast paced, but it’s probably best if you just don't stop and think about any details (if you do, it will not go well for you). Turn off your brain and go with it, and have a blast. Maybe even grab yourself a nice cold glass of milk before you settle in with it…I don’t think Downing is the author for me (though I did enjoy this one much more than My Lovely Wife), so this will probably be my last book of hers, but I’m still giving this one high marks. It very much succeeds in my opinion in what it is trying to do and to be. And I think as long as you go into this knowing it’s going to be an easy, popcorny, silly thrill of a ride, you’ll most likely love it.
3771005976	3.5 Stars, but I am very generously rounding up to 4 Stars here. This is a story about an elite prep school, known as Belmont Academy, that as of late seems to have had a bit of a problem with their faculty mysteriously dropping dead! Almost immediately we are introduced to the culprit, none other than the English teacher, and this year's Teacher of the Year recipient, Teddy Crutcher (is it just me, or is that name incredibly similar to Freddy Krueger?!). You see, Teddy has a nasty habit of growing poisonous plants in his garden and on occasion, adding a few droplets of said poison into the faculty lounge coffee supply. Teddy has a very high opinion of himself, and does not hesitate to punish anyone who has even the slightest of differences of opinion! As the bodies start to pile up, will anyone suspect Mr. Crutcher??At first I was incredibly entertained, but for the most part I just thought this read incredibly long, and I got rather tired of listening to Crutcher's self-absorbed inner dialogue. It just seemed to go on and on, and on top of that a lot of the deaths seemed nonsensical and I really had to suspend my disbelief at certain points. Don't get me wrong, I'm all about reading from the perspective of a sociopathic narcissist, but Crutcher was mainly just incredibly annoying more so than evil, and in fact, I felt he could have been so much worse! I was eager to find out if he got what was coming to him, but unfortunately the ending also fell a bit short for me. I thought there might be more development in Crutcher's wife's storyline than what we got, and I suppose I expected there to be a huge twist like in Downing's previous novel, but alas, it never came. That being said, there were redeemable and entertaining parts, and I particularly enjoyed the fact that you never knew just who might drop dead next (it was a love/hate relationship!), I just felt it could have been about 100 pages shorter. While I'm still glad I read this one, I would definitely say this is my least favorite of this author's three published novels (He Started it is my #1). Of all three of Downing's novels I've felt that there was just one crucial scene or plot twist that has kept each from being a fantastic thriller, and keeping that in mind, I know she definitely has the potential to pull it together eventually! In summation, unfortunately this was just a decent read that had tons of potential to be much better! I'm quite certain I will be in the minority with this opinion. Despite this one just being a bit 'Meh' for me, there's no doubt about it, I'll still be out there on publication day for her next release, she's still one of the best new thriller/suspense writers out there, and I can't wait to see what else she comes up with! Onto the next great '21 Read!!
3711464832	4.5 ⭐ Downing is a master! 😍
4100214267	4.5this was super fun and totally reminded me of "You"
3578899088	It seems wrong to say a psychopath is delightful, but that’s exactly how Samantha Downing writes them. What an enjoyable audiobook about the devious and demented Teddy Crutcher. (Note: this is not a spoiler as the reader is inside Teddy’s psychopathic head from the very beginning of the novel). Teddy is a teacher at a prestigious prep school, and he likes everything just so — like his cherished nightly glass of cold milk he will only drink from a glass bottle. When some of Teddy’s teacher colleagues get on his nerves, Teddy devises a way to get under their skin, cause them pain and discomfort, and, eventually, perhaps eliminate them permanently.What I love about Samantha Downing is the depth and interest of all of her characters. What an imagination this author has! How did she ever think up such a petty and competitive prep school teacher, a rule follower with a distaste for his lesser colleagues who loves nothing more than a cold glass of milk and some murder? He is perfection. Though Teddy is far and away the most interesting, humorous, and demented character in the book, there are other great characters to read about too. There are the students Teddy loves to quietly torture….one or two of whom are starting to catch on. There are the other quirky teachers at the school. And there is Belmont Academy itself. The high-and-mighty prep school and all its prestigious (and some would say useless) traditions that simultaneously vex and obsess Teddy are instantly funny and relatable to read about. Even if you haven’t been to prep school, you’ve probably known one of the students or teachers this book skewers so deftly.The murder mystery is great and while the killer is known to the readers from the start, it is extremely fun watching the hapless investigation from the vantage point of the other characters and suspects. Teddy’s ambitious efforts to rise to the top in the wake of the murders is perfectly and hilariously chronicled. This book just solidifies Samantha Downing as one of my favorite thriller authors. David Pittu’s audiobook narration is great, with just the right amount of alternating satire and seriousness to bring all the characters, especially Teddy to life.I can’t wait to read more of the fantastic plots and amazing characters that Samantha Downing creates next. Her next book cannot come soon enough!
3265598823	literally dead book club liveshow https://youtu.be/WHYyrw0RAcQ
3881759563	This book totally stands out from other thrillers! The plot is unlike anything I've read before and it's very well-crafted. I loved reading about Teddy Crutcher, this one of a kind teacher. Getting inside his head was fascinating.I always enjoy stories set in schools, being a teacher myself. This one was a satire on private school life and a thriller at the same time. It was exquisite! Suspenseful but also funny.Each character was unique. I had a lot of fun reading about all of them (especially Teddy, Zach and Fallon). So, why 4 stars? Because, during the first part, I wasn't sure where the story was going. The same thing happened in My Lovely Wife (3.5 stars), but For Your Own Good was better! I highly recommend it.
4141195037	Disturbing, darkly humorous, and a zippy read!Let me tell you!! FOR YOUR OWN GOOD by SAMANTHA DOWNING is quite the twisty and wicked thriller.I immediately knew that this was going to be a fun and entertaining book for me but what I didn’t know was how weird this book was going to make me feel. At times I was having so much fun with it and at other times I just wanted to walk away. Now here’s the thing: it was such a chaotic and diabolical wacky book that I just couldn’t ignore and walk away from. It’s like I was hooked one minute and not the next. It was like a guilty pleasure. You don’t want to like it but you can’t help yourself because well those characters are so cunning and devious that you can’t help but be entertained by them. You just need to stay tuned to see what kind of shenanigans they are going to get themselves into and yup who’s going to be murdered next.I was laughing out loud, creeped out (milk is NOT my thing), and entertained. I quite enjoyed how this one kept me guessing and how it all wrapped up. This was a cleverly layered story with a great storyline that I won’t soon forget.I love that this has been optioned by Robert Downing Jr. for HBO Max. It is definitely going to make an awesome show! Thank you so much to NetGalley, Berkley Publishing, and Samantha Downing for my digital review copy. Would recommend it!
5082830535	If you like over-the-top, crazy stories, you’ll definitely like this book. Psychological thrillers often follow a very standardized script, where twists are a given. I didn’t feel that for your own good had too many twists, you knew who did what, no real surprises if you concentrated while reading. I had fun reading it and it was noteworthy enough to be remembered for some time, so I didn’t mind not being surprised.
3477368701	I want to start off by saying I love Samantha Downing and will read anything she writes. I definitely liked this one better than “He Started It” but it was definitely no “My Lovely Wife” (aka top tier thriller book). I did have my hopes up pretty high as I always do when going into Downing’s books. This is centered around Teddy who teaches high school students and is a petty psychopath who genuinely cares for his students thinking that everything he does is for their own good (haha), including stalking them. Teddy is an unforgettable character, he’s one of the weirdest I’ve read in awhile. For example, he drinks milk to celebrate and is also lactose intolerant. If that is not pure psychopath behavior I don’t know what is. I liked Zach a lot too, which was one of Teddy’s students. He's a pure dude and I really rooted for him the whole time. As interesting as the characters were, I feel like I wanted more drama. There is a lot of petty drama surrounding the students and teachers (aside from Teddy and Zach) but I just wanted MORE. I was entertained for sure but this wasn’t much of a thriller because we kind of saw everything happening. It’s kinda like a who dun it but we know who dun what. Despite my rating, I would still recommend this book because it was fun. The chapters are short and I love Downing’s writing, it’s just so easy to breeze through. I would like to personally thank Netgalley, Tara, and Dache’ from Berkley Publishing for allowing me an advanced copy of one of my most anticipated 2021 reads!-----------------------------THANK YOU SO MUCH to Netgalley and Berkeley Media for an arc of this book! i'm literally screaming here this morning i can't wait to read this one!!!
3659935711	Meet Teddy Cutcher. He’s the Teacher of the Year at the prestigious and exclusive Belmont Academy and teaches English…along with a few other lessons. See, Teddy believes it’s his added responsibility to bring some of these students down a size, for their own good, even if it means destroying them (and others in the way) using unconventional methods. Whoa! This is all kinds of crazy sauce, deliciously served up in the most clever of packages. Teddy is very definitely a psychopath but not the kind that’s obvious to any but those who have suffered because of him. But, by the time he’s done with them, their credibility is below zero and no one would believe them. And if there was any chance of that, he’d figure out how to permanently dispose of them. As captivating and outrageous as Teddy was, I really wanted him to be caught, but only in as diabolical a way as he would concoct. It was impossible to put this book down and the narrator made that even more difficult. His depiction of Teddy was dead on but he was equally adept at voicing everyone else. Get ready for a fun but macabre psychological thriller that doesn’t believe anything could be considered over the top. It just works here and there’s no clue how this is going to work out. I had my suspicions, came close, but wasn’t invested in being right. This is definitely going to be on my list of favorites for the year.Posted on Blue Mood Café
4285602142	Reading Vlog: https://youtu.be/ChyU-r2AQLYSamantha Downing can not MISS! The characters are so perfectly effed up.If you took the fast and fun pacing of Finlay Donovan but had Joe Goldberg from You as the main character, it would be this book.It's dark academia with a teacher who is more interested in teaching kids lessons than the curriculum. He decides when a student is too cocky, arrogant, rich, etc. and makes it his mission to put them in their place. The ways he does so are so sinister and plausible that it makes you side eye the teachers you've had in your own life.This book follows him constantly upping the ante on his malicious intent. There are so many twists and turns. It's nonstop. The chapters are short and so engaging. I couldn't stop reading this book. I had to know what would become of these characters and this storyline.A great book. Highly recommend.
4055224784	Who is your favourite anti-hero or villain protagonist?They’re hard to find so please let me know so I can check it out!! For me it's Joe from “You” by Caroline Kepnes.What I Enjoyed:• This was a fun roller coaster ride. I loved the cat and mouse games between the devious characters. • Teddy carried the story. I love being in the head of a villain protagonist. The way he rationalizes things to himself was so entertaining and twisted (he gave me Joe vibes!). His moral compass was so wrong, he believed that he was a good person and saw nothing wrong with his actions. His intentions were good...just not his methods!• 5 star ending! Very fitting! Teddy would be very happy that he actually inspired and got through to one of his students haha. • I listened to this on Audible and the actor was so good. At first I didn’t like him because I thought his voice sounded flat, sarcastic and when he voiced other characters, especially females, they sounded almost comical. But after learning more about Teddy it was actually very fitting! I felt like this was how other people sounded to Teddy - incompotent so it actually worked out. What I wanted more of:I wish there was more tension, wits and confrontation. I never felt like I was on the edge of my seat thinking how would he/she get out of this pickle. Everyone knew something damning about each other and did some devious things behind the scenes however not much tension actually came out of it. Everyone dealt with the situation quietly and calmly. For example:(view spoiler)[• Zack found out about Teddy’s ex wife. I thought he would somehow use this information against Teddy. • Fallon's appearance didn't really shake things up. She found out about Teddy’s vasectomy and revealed it to Allison. Although that did cause the divorce, we didn’t see any confrontation, it was all done behind the scenes and we are only told that she left. Fallon also recorded/watched Teddy but that didn't reveal much and she sent an email which resulted in her quiet death. • Teddy’s ex wife Allison was mentioned quite a lot and yet she didn’t actually make any major appearance. • No one ever openly suspected Teddy for the murders, he never had any close calls. (hide spoiler)]There was finally tension and confrontation at the end, I just wish there was more of it throughout the book. FYI:There was no mystery as such. You’re in this for the crazy plot with devious characters.
3579833732	I loved every second of this clever, edge of your seat, twisty thriller novel. For Your Own Good by Samantha Downing was by far my favorite of all her books. I listened to the audiobook that was read by David Pittu. He easily and flawlessly transitioned from one character to the next. The characters in For Your Own Good were just the right amount of complex and the plot was so well thought out. It was fast paced and was very hard to stop listening to once I started. It was set at Belmont Academy, a prestigious private school, where parents had their noses in everything that occurred at the school especially if it involved their children. The students who attended Belmont Academy were well off, competitive and used to getting what they wanted. Then there were the teachers at Belmont Academy. There was one teacher in particular who thought he could read his students like no one else. He pushed them hard so that they reached their full potential. Unfortunately, he also felt that certain students were beyond saving and not worth his time and effort. Teddy Crutcher, the recipient of the Teacher of the Year award, was aware that several deaths had occurred recently at Belmont Academy. He wanted no part in this even though these deaths were looking more and more like murder rather than like accidents. His efforts were geared toward his students. Teddy Crutcher’s focus was entirely on helping his students reach their potential. Nothing could interfere with his efforts…not other teachers, not interfering parents and certainly not his students. He wanted all of them to just leave him alone and let him do what he did best. There would be a price to pay if they didn’t. What he was doing and felt that he had to do was for their “own good”. For Your Own Good by Samantha Downing was masterfully plotted with lots of twists and turns. Samantha Downing outdid herself in this clever thriller. It was paced just right and the characters were rich and colorful. Teddy Crutcher was quite delusional. His mind was twisted and he always believed he was doing the right thing even when he wasn’t. I really liked Zach’s character. He remained true to himself throughout and his intelligence worked in his favor. Since I teach at a private school where the population is affluent and some parents feel like they are entitled, I totally related to this book. The ending was quite satisfying and overall I really enjoyed it. I highly recommend this book.
4149950127	This book! When I read My Lovely Wife two years ago, I knew I had a new favorite thriller author. I can’t compare Samantha Downing’s books to anyone else’s. They truly shine as her own, and the entertainment value with an edge of sarcasm and wit is exceptional. I smile and laugh with all her books, while also sitting on the edge of my seat! With her third book, For Your Own Good, I was just as charmed. Plus, it’s set in a private school! I love school settings! I love school! 😂Belmont Academy is an academically prestigious school, and Teddy Crutcher is its teacher of the year. Teddy’s wife is his biggest fan, but no one has seen her lately. A school parent dies, and when it looks like it was probably murder, it’s not even on Teddy’s mind. He is too busy working hard for his students. It drives him all of his waking hours and his sleeping ones, too. High standards always come at a price, though.That Teddy! He only likes some students, but for those, he gives his absolute all. Of course there are shocking twists; this is Samantha Downing, right? But the star of the show here is Teddy! He is a character you will never forget!Belmont has a problem, a big one, but who is behind it?! I know I said it already, but it bears repeating - all five stars! ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ I received a gifted copy.Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader
3620094297	Samantha Downing’s latest psychological thriller was darkly comedic and depraved.The private school setting was certainly to my liking, and I couldn’t help the smug satisfaction I felt that teachers and students were the ones being messed with, especially since these characters were overall unlikeable. There’s just something about an academic setting that works so well in a psychological thriller, and Samantha Downing excelled at making it work.It was a fast read, flowed well, was easy to follow, and had short chapters, and to the point sentences. And pretty much every chapter ended with a shocking revelation. This was my third Samantha Downing novel, and here’s what I’ve learnt so far:You never know what’s coming, but you know it’s bound to be psychotic.I feel like it’s best to never get attached to her characters.Her characters are usually repellent. Even the one’s you think are likeable will likely stab someone in the back – could be figuratively or literally, or both.Characters biggest mistake is believing they are smarter than everyone around them. It’s their ultimate downfall.They are consistently punished for their actions, mistakes, and betrayals. There’s poetic justice in that.Normally, no one gets out unscathed.To sum up, I can’t get enough of Samantha Downing’s books. I’ll always be back for more.
3894547120	3.5 stars This is my second book by this author.Although I found the writing extremely simplistic, I have to say that I enjoyed the concept and the structure of this book.It’s development was highly entertaining and got me hooked from the beginning.It’s a very fast read, less than 320 pages with 86 short chapters (a total of 87k words).The characters were unreal but fun. Some were quite delusional.There is a a good number of twists that I found clever.But I wished for more depth and I really wanted to connect with at least one character.Still, this was definitely a fun read.
3656705128	“Today will be a good day.”Teddy Crutcher is teacher of the year at the exclusive private school, Belmont Academy. His only goal is to help his students fulfill their potential greatness at any cost. When other teachers and colleagues get in his way, he decides that he must teach them a lesson. Does that make him a murderer or savior? Let’s all raise our ice cold glasses of milk in cheers to Samantha Downing! 🥛Samantha Downing is an absolute genius. Each one of her books consistently raises the bar for unputdownable, unpredictable, twisty thrillers. For Your Own Good is so completely original, quirky, and creepy. I fell in love with the characters, even though I should hate them. That is not an easy thing to get your reader to do, and she nailed it! The short chapters furthered the plot with every turn of the page and I was completely engrossed in every sentence of this book. The cat and mouse game is so intriguing that you will long to keep reading. While some parts of this book are not completely believable (ie. the FBI and police incompetence and the hiring of teachers without the proper certifications), I was willing to look the other way because I was having so much fun. I also would have liked to hear more from Crutcher’s wife, Allison’s perspective, as she would have added another creepy dimension to the plot. Overall, this thriller is a must read. Even HBO Max wants to develop a series out of it! However, one thing’s for sure, no more coffee pods for me!5/5 stars
3706931210	This is quite a cast of characters. Teddy Crutcher, the award-winning teacher, is down right diabolical. His nemesis, Zach Ward, is a bit of a Pollyanna about his ability to effect change. Then there is the body-conscious Freddy and the bitter, former over-achiever Fallon. You may never use that Keurig again after reading this book, especially if it is in a breakroom at work. I loved the ways Downing found to twist and turn her title phrase like a pretzel. If you love Lisa Jewell, Louise Candlish, and Peter Swanson then this book is for you.Thank you to Berkley and NetGalley for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.
3715230772	This is definitely one for people who like character driven suspense, which luckily, is me. Teddy is such a distinctive character who I loved to hate, and there was a gossipy vibe to the way the story unfolded that made me feel like I was eating popcorn & watching the train wreck happen. I will say that this isn't really a thriller - I'd say it's more of a suspense, so if you are looking for something more in the traditional dun-dun-DUN thriller, this may not be what you're looking for. But overall, super fun & I will look for more from this author
3932382952	I LOVED THIS BOOK. Full review to come - this one is amazing!!! Delightfully twisted and doesn't take itself too seriously, with an (intentionally!!) awful narrator who I loved/hated. Add this one to your summer TBR, especially if you're a fan of psychological thrillers with characters who are unlikeable on purpose.
3893039169	I don't know if I would call this one a thriller and definitely no mystery since you know who committed the crimes from the start. What was suspenseful was waiting to see what would happen next. What a fun and unpredictable mess this book was! Bravo Ms. Downing, Teddy was SO utterly unlikable, but his character was written so well. This book was so dark and twisted, and I really enjoyed it. I've seen it said a few times and those reviewers were right, I will never look at a glass of milk the same way ever again. 4 entertaining stars!
4173572606	2.5 stars
3619491307	Thank you so much to Berkley, Samantha Downing, and Netgalley for my ARC of this book that comes out on July 20, 2021!Teddy is, above all else, a good teacher. He is teacher of the year after all. Teddy will do anything he can to protect his students at the prestigious private school he works at. He knows that his wife is proud of him and it doesn’t matter that other teachers have been there longer than him. It doesn’t matter that he didn’t attend a private school growing up and that no one seems to appreciate him for everything he does.In For Your Own Good, Samantha Downing compiles a cast of interesting characters, all with secrets to hide. First, there is Zach, a senior at the elite Belmont Academy. He has overbearing parents who work in law and finance, and expect nothing but the best from their son. Next there is Courtney, yearbook editor and strong willed perfectionist. And then there is Sonja, or Mrs. B as her students call her. Sonja is friendly, helpful, and beloved by all...but is she really? Then there is a death at Belmont, and no one knows who to trust.Thoughts: In Downing’s third book, she explores the tension that comes with attending a top-notch private school. Each and every character is dynamic and captivating, grabbing your attention from the very beginning. I loved not knowing where the book was going or who I could trust. The private school setting is always interesting to me, and layered with the personal lives of many characters, it was a great combination.Downing always has the ability to take a simple premise and weave it into a story full of twists, turns, and shocking surprises. Just when you think you know how the book will end, another detail changes your perspective on the whole story. For Your Own Good takes the reader on a twisted journey, ending, as all her books do, with pure satisfaction. I can’t wait to see the next book Samantha Downing comes up with, as I already know it will be fantastic. If you are a fan of the prep school setting, a good twist, or a completely original story, this one's for you! 5-stars!Review first available on mysteryandsuspense.com
3675049941	This was the most fun I've had reading all year!If you like the movie Burn After Reading, a zany black comedy with Brad Pitt and George Clooney, then For Your Own Good is likely up your alley. To quote that movie: "What a clusterfu*k!"Samantha Downing takes over-the-top to an all new level with this wickedly sharp and clever mystery about shenanigans that take place at the prestigious Belmont Academy. The ever-cynical and diabolical Teacher of the Year Teddy is one of the most memorable characters I've read to date. Sadly, there's an authenticity to the rationalization of his thoughts that is plenty evident in the world today.5 of the easiest stars I've ever given. It's FUN, fast-paced, engaging, fantastic writing, memorable characters, clever reveals, satisfying ending, and so on. Cheers! 🥛 (even though Teddy needs to lay off the milk!)Fun fact: Robert Downey Jr has signed up to play Teddy in an adaptation scheduled to be released on HBO Max. What an awesome casting! What about Amy Poehler for fellow teacher, Sonia? Maybe?
4297571259	Ugh. I don't know why but I feel creeped out about the milk thing (a run-of-the-mill habit is now sounding a bit sinister.) Haha.Fist off, this was fun. I didn't do anything for the whole day just so I could finish this. I just loved being inside Teddy's head. I liked how he verbalised his feelings towards the students/faculty members, his arrogant principles and the hypocrisy in his ideals. He's a smug SOB and I loved how he was written, someone I could hate without feeling guilty about it.It was going great until it wasn't. I don't know what happened but somehow, along the way, it got a little bit boring for me, maybe because of too many POV's or maybe it got predictable, still, it was a fun read I just wish there was more of a shock factor, I just wanted MORE. I would still recommend this. A lot of people loved this book so I think there's something wrong with me for being ungrateful. Like I said, it was a fun read.
3483106222	Samantha Downing has quickly become one of my favorite thriller authors! With unlikable characters, juicy plots, and endings that leave you wondering, she’s developed a unique writing style, and For Your Own Good was no exception!Our story is told primarily through Teddy’s point of view. He’s a high school teacher at the prestigious Belmont Academy, and wants to “help” his students…through any means necessary. At different points throughout the novel, we also hear from other teachers, as well as a student named Zach, who has ended up on Teddy’s bad side, though he has no idea why. After a prominent parent who was very active at the school dies and is ruled suspicious, the school is shocked, and rumors surrounding her death run rampant.This was a really interesting read, in that the reader knows what happens and why, but that there are still some twists and turns thrown in that keep the reader engaged and on their toes! Many of the characters in the book are unlikable, so if you’re like me, you are rooting for some of them to fail! I will say that you will likely have to suspend disbelief while reading this one. There are several plot lines happening that all intertwine, and personally I felt like there was no way all of these things could be happening at once, and for that reason, I did rate this one 4 stars instead of 5. That said, I was hooked on the book immediately, and read it in two sittings, so that definitely says something!If you are looking for a binge-able summer mystery, this will be a great choice for you! It moves quickly and will hold your attention throughout the book as you wait to see how everything will play out. For Your Own Good is out tomorrow, July 20, so be sure to pick this one up! I’d like to thank Berkley for my advanced copy of the novel. It was my pleasure to provide an honest review.
3749063224	For Your Own Good is a contemporary mystery/thriller that takes place at the elite prep school, the Belmont Academy (I think it's the Belmont Academy, but throughout the story, it's called Belmont). At Belmont, the students all come from privilege—parents funneling money into the school to provide their children with the best opportunity (and unfair advantage) as possible. Teddy Crutcher, an English teacher at Belmont can see right through the BS and isn't afraid of a challenge. When he sees a student using their privilege for no good, he makes sure to give them challenges that can try and deflat them. Just ask his former student, a straight A student who was denied all her top colleges because he told them what he felt about her.At Belmont, Teddy is Teacher of the Year, but as faculty and students start to uncover Teddy's deceit, major conflicts arise at the school. With multiple deaths and multiple scandals, is Belmont really just all smoke and mirrors?When in doubt, pick up a Samantha Downing novel! Seriously, I dove into this book and couldn't put it down. Seriously though, Samantha Downing never disappoints. In all honesty, For Your Own Good is definitely her strongest novel yet. It has multiple points of view, multiple storylines all intermingling with each other, and multiple heroes and foes to enjoy. I thought I knew how the story would unfold, and it really took me on a journey that I didn't expect. I normally steer clear of prep-school storylines because, yuck teenagers, but this story was excellent. If you don't read this book when it comes out, you are doing yourself a disservice. One of the strongest thrillers I've read this year easily.
4093148511	FOR YOUR OWN GOOD takes us into the twisting, dark back corridors of Belmont, an elite private school populated by narcissistic kids, driven, manipulative parents, and brutally competitive teachers running questionable agendas. When people start dying, suspects abound. Is it the sociopathic teacher of the year, the skulking janitor, the unrelenting helicopter mom? Downing’s spare prose packs a wallop as she deftly ratchets up the suspense with every hairpin turn of this lean, mean, surprising, and utterly propulsive thriller.
3621259051	Samantha Downing - you have outdone yourself! I have a new favourite and a strong contender for favourite book of 2021. For Your Own Good is dark, twisty, witty, disturbing, fun, addictive and so so good! I was hooked from the very start and could not get enough of it. It really is a fantastic read that you seriously need to get your hands on.I am not going to talk plot too much as I think everyone knows about it. There are characters that you know you shouldn't like but can't help but warm to them. Teddy Crutcher, Teacher of the Year at Belmont Academy. He will remind everyone of this at any given opportunity. He wants the best for his students, but they have to work for it. Don't get on his bad side, like Zach Ward. has. The parents of this elite and exclusive private school are more entitled than the kids! Lots of spoilt adults, pressuring their kids to do better, be better. It is a recipe for disaster and I loved every minute of it.Thank you, thank you, thank you Michael Joseph and Netgalley for my advanced copy of this book.
4134520345	4.5 starsI normally have a lot of respect for people who work in education, but some of the teachers at this private school were pretty despicable. I had empathy for the rich kids who went to this prep school for being pawns of parents and teachers.Teddy Crutcher, though Teacher of the Year, has it out for the wealthy teenagers he teaches, to put it mildly. There are murders and intrigue and mysteries. There were a couple things at the end I didn’t love, but all in all a gripping read. Thanks to NetGalley for the opportunity to review this novel.
4185713803	Samantha Downing delivers a wallop of an entertaining twisty ride with her newest novel, “For Your Own Good”. Teddy Crutcher is Teacher of the Year, and all he wants is the best for his students at Belmont Academy. Even if that means that he has to take drastic measures to make sure others don’t interfere. But others have started to notice Teddy’s secretive behaviour, and once Teddy finds out, he will have to ensure they stay quiet. By any means necessary. “For Your Own Good” has really small chapters, which makes it even more page-turning and addictive. Mostly narrated by Teddy himself, readers get an in-depth look into the inner workings of an outright psychopath. Completely stoic and devoid of emotion, Teddy goes through his day with a self-serving focus. I couldn’t get enough of him! Zack, Teddy’s student, Fallon, a former student and Frank, a colleague, all take their turns narrating the novel as well and the reader is presented with Teddy as viewed from the outside world- which is even more chilling than being inside his head. The twists in this novel don’t quit, and the farther I got into this novel, the more I didn’t want it to end. Downing completely pulled me in from page one with her immersive writing style and likable (albeit perverse) characters (Teddy, anyway). Each small chapter was chock full of action and evil, and as more secrets are revealed and covered up, I could not look away. I read Downing’s “For Your Own Good” in a day, and I did not want it to end. I have read many “prep school murder” books this year (in fact, I think it has spawned its own genre) but by FAR, Downing’s novel is the best. A five-star, can’t-stop-reading, page-turning, addictive thrill ride, “For Your Own Good” is compulsively readable. I want more Teddy and I cannot wait to see what Downing delivers next.
4127450651	You must read this book,for your own good!It's a fun and ultra-compelling read and it's Samantha Downing at her finest. This is my fourth Samantha Downing book and my favorite title by far. If I could give this book 10 stars I would.What is the worst possible thing that can happen to students and teachers at a private elite high school? Samantha Downing reveals it all.FOR YOUR OWN GOOD was thrilling, chilling....and so fulfilling! Featuring a dark and devious teacher/protagonist who shows little mercy to students he dislikes, the book was fast-paced and unpredictable with over-the-top character development. I was both happy and sad when the book ended. I was happy that I never attended "Homicide High", yet I was sad when I reached the book's final chapter. I listened to the audiobook and the narrator was superb.Samantha Downing is one of my new "go to" authors and I look forward to listening to her future titles.
4389311008	being a teacher and therefore knowing how maddening the educational career can be, I wouldn't be human if I didn't love these dark academia vibes with psychotic teachers lurking in the school hallways. ♡
4156584340	What a delightfully twisted story this was! I could not put it down.
3946745223	A deliciously evil story! I had an absolute blast reading this book. It's not the easiest task to build an entertaining story around some unlikeable characters but the author did a phenomenal job. I've read over 100 books this year, and hands down, this book is in my top 5 reads.Teddy Crutcher is a teacher at the exclusive Belmont Academy. His actions are motivated by his belief everything he does for someone is for their own good. This book is a thriller and that's really all you need to know ahead of time. Just enjoy the wild and crazy ride!The story alternates between a few different characters and it was fun getting inside their heads. I loved how I wasn't exactly sure what was in store because unexpected things happening in the story. Where was the author's devious and creative mind going to take me? It came down to the wire as up until the last page I still was wondering how things were going to wrap up. From start to finish, it was a great read.Highly recommend if you enjoyed books like Gone Girl and The Kind Worth Killing.
4740204405	2.5 StarsTold in multiple POV, 3rd person, it’s a standalone novel. I love this author's writing and this one is good in that part but I can't say that I liked its ending. I’m not a big fan of this kind of endings. But the characters are well-developed and it contains short chapters. It’s also fast-paced. Albeit I think it’s a bit over the top! But considering all the good reviews and the high rating I think it’s me and not the book. So please don’t listen to me and read it. By any means, it’s not a bad one, just an OK read for me. All in all, hope you enjoy it more than me!
3894517821	SOON TO BE A TELEVISION SERIES ON HBO MAX.I LOVED #ForYouOwnGood —Twisty and darkly hilarious, Samantha Downing delivers her best yet with a leading wicked man, Teddy Crutcher, Teacher of the Year. Warning: Stay away from those coffee pods. You never know who has tampered with them. Some students, colleagues, and parents may think of a different title for Teddy. He wants to control everyone and loves to give students a B when he knows their work is brilliant and A+ quality (to bring them down a notch because he can) among many other devious tactics. OMG! Teddy could be Joe Goldberg’s dad (YOU, Caroline Kepnes) and perhaps a former husband of Jane Harris (The Favorite Daughter, Kaira Rouda). I expect readers will be talking about this cleverly created narcissistic character for years to come. Teddy Crutcher teaches English at the prestigious and elite Belmont Academy. Teddy does not like the wealthy and entitled parents, students, or colleagues. He thinks he must teach them a life lesson. He also does not care for the other teachers and staff from money or the graduates turned teachers from Belmont. Teddy lives in an old house with a garden of poisonous plants and drives an old Saab. He says he has a wife named Allison, but no one has seen her lately. He devises a devious plan to poison a teacher. However, his plan does not go as planned. Dang, the wrong one but no worries, Teddy can kill off a few more for the greater good.This minor mix-up causes some drama for students Courtney and Zack. Even though he does not care for his entitled students, he still needs to control the situation. Teddy has made quite a few enemies over the years, including his former student, Fallon Knight. She was a brilliant student, and Teddy knew this, but again, he had to bring her down—ultimately screwed up her GPA due to his bad grades. Plus, he wrote a false, nasty reference letter saying she was a cheater, which eventually kept her from getting into an Ivy League school. Then her wealthy parents cutting her off and forced her to attend a state school and work dead-end jobs. She is out for REVENGE. After all, who could blame her? Teddy is not giving her enough credit because she has some games up her sleeve as well. (I loved the Allison twist and the sperm bank). Over the years, she sends Teddy nasty emails and shows up at Belmont as a teacher. Fallon and Zack are both on his trail, and neither knows they are really on the same side. He must cover his tracks. In the meantime, there are more deaths by poison and some sleuthing by Fallon and Zack. Watch out for the food left in the teacher’s lounge and those events that include coffee, drinks, and food. In addition, Teddy also throws the janitor and the headmaster’s secretary under the bus (loved Joe, the janitor, and his banter). Someone steals his teacher of the Year plaque, and Teddy is in an uproar. The best of all is the math teacher, Frank (former math teacher) turned clergy. However, Frank knows more about Teddy that changes the course of everything. What a twist! What a fantastic book! Samantha Downing takes a wicked cat and mouse game to a new level! Highly entertaining! Laugh out loud and just what I needed. Not only does the author keep you guessing about Teddy, Zach, Frank, Courtney, Fallon, Sonia, and the rest, I adored the fatherly words of wisdom sprinkled throughout from Zach’s dad.#ForYourOwnGood is a creepy, funny, and satirical peek inside the world of the private school sector and its politics, as well as the unfortunate pressure parents, put on their children to make it into the Ivy League school. Then a rotten egg like Teddy can destroy their lives. This delicious creation a perfect fun and clever read—a nice change from all the heavy psychological thrillers. It is not like the typical prestigious and elite schools with a lot of drama from the students. So much better. FOR YOUR OWN GOOD is full of dark humor, where you laugh out loud. I started this one and was at 50% when I looked up. I had to stop for work, came back zoomed through to the end in one day. There is never a lull or dull moment. It is fast-paced, mysterious, and you cannot wait to see what will happen to Teddy, hoping that someone will please poison his dang milk.Highly recommend! I hope we see more books coming like this. Cannot wait for the TV series and the cast of stars. Top Books of 2021.A special thank you to #NetGalley and #Berkley for an advanced reading copy. Blog Review#JDCMustReadBooks@JudithDCollinsMy Rating: 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 Pub Date: July 20, 2021
3826185795	Featuring ~ multiple 3rd person POV, 3 part story, murder, poison, private schoolWe follow the perspectives of:Teddy ~ teacher of the yearZach ~ studentSonia ~ teacherFrank ~ teacherFallon ~ former student of Teddy's that replaces Sonia Most all of the characters are unlikable, but Teddy is a character you love to hate. There were some suspenseful moments and twists that kept me on the edge of my seat. *older read mimi review*Follow me here ➡ Blog ~ Facebook
3894688383	This was an excellent thriller! I couldn’t put it down and read it all in one day - it’s been awhile since I’ve been that captivated by a book!It’s set at a private school where the teachers may not have the students best interest in mind. The bodies start piling up and more and more characters become suspect. The students are suspect. The teachers are suspect. The alumni is suspect. What is happening at this school?And just when you think you’ve got the whole thing figured out BOOM 🤯 you didn’t know anything.
