882260191	Every night of the year, the market lived and breathed and thrived. The stalls were always changing, but the energy remained, as much a part of the city as the river it fed on. Kell traced the edge of the bank, weaving through the evening fair, savoring the taste and smell of the air, the sound of laughter and music, the thrum of magic. I'm already a Victoria Schwab fan after reading her good vs evil superhero urban fantasy novel - Vicious - so I couldn't wait to get reacquainted with her addictive writing style, complex characters and wonderfully-conceived fantasy worlds. As it turns out, A Darker Shade of Magic was even more than I'd expected.This book feels more like traditional fantasy than Vicious with the style, the invention of a new language, the large cast of characters, the magic, and the focus on royal/political dynamics. And yet, to use the word "traditional" anywhere near this novel is an injustice because it's unlike anything I've ever read before.The characters are weird and colorful. We have a protagonist - Kell - who is strong and badass enough to root for, but also complex and layered enough for us to truly care about and relate to. Plus, he has a coat that has many sides, which he turns around depending on how he wants to look - insane, unique, wonderful. Schwab's imagination clearly knows no bounds.We also have a cross-dressing pirate who happens to be a tough, infuriating and lovable female character - Lila. And a promiscuous prince, villains who are blood slaves, evil twin rulers and much more. And then there's this bizarre world that just played on every one of my senses. The author asks us to believe in a setting that is incredibly farfetched and yet she breathes life into this world with evocative language and makes the unbelievable something we can picture in our heads. She shares little stories from this world's history to flesh out the picture: The infamous Krös Mejkt, the “Stone Forest,” was made up not of trees but of statues, all of them people. It was rumored the figures hadn’t always been stone, that the forest was actually a graveyard, kept by the Danes to commemorate those they killed, and remind any who passed through the outer wall of what happened to traitors in the twins’ London. What's all this about the "twins' London"? Well, in this world there are four different versions of London that only the Antari like Kell can move between. Technically, there are only three these days because Black London fell, consumed by its own misuse of magic. The others are Grey London (the one we know), Red London (the one Kell is from) and White London (ruled over by the sadistic Danes twins).Everyone, it seems, is out to use magic for their own selfish goals in this book. And when a mysterious relic from Black London - a relic that should have been destroyed - reappears, Kell and Lila must do what they can to protect it from all those who wish to claim it as their own.Nothing short of a wild, fast-paced adventure.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Pinterest
1234861422	“As Travars,” he said. Travel. And oh boy, I did travel. I was covered in smoke, I tasted metal, I smelled roses, I wore a bizarre coat and I dreamed under a pale sky. But unfortunately, I did not feel.A Darker Shade of Magic had great potential. The world V.E. Schwab created is fascinating, full of magic and blood. There is Kell, an Antari, a blood magician who can travel between parallel universes, and Lila, a street thief who wants to become a pirate and experience great adventures, and when their fates interwine, they are the only ones who can save all three Londons from the tainted magic that destroyed the forth. I mean, it sounds pretty amazing, doesn't it? “I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still.” I can't say that the execution failed me, because I was all too eager to read Kell and Lila's story, to turn the pages and fight and travel and discover the mysteries of the powerful obsidian stone and uncover conspiracies and secrets. But in the end I was unsatisfied. I expected something more and my expectations were not met because I couldn't connect with the characters. They were superficial and I was detached. I didn't care about their fates, I didn't find in them the depth I wanted and the pang of enthusiasm I usually feel when I start a new series. I was just a silent observer, witnessing their story unfold without finding the spark of magic that would make me an active participant and cheer for them, worry for them and eventually love them. Lila annoyed me a couple of times with her imprudence and her recklessness but there is no doubt she was a badass and strong female lead. I liked Kell a little more and I waited for the signs that I was falling for him, but they never came. I'm still intrigued about his magic and his past though and I'm curious about the way his relationship with Lila will develop. “Some people steal to stay alive, and some steal to feel alive. Simple as that.” I can't help but shake the feeling that V.E. Schwab had raised her wand, ready to cast the spell that would bewitch me but the words never left her lips. Her plotline was like Red London, vivid and full of possibilities. Her characters like White London, dangerous yet somehow pale and faded. And me, well, I'm Grey London, magicless in the surface but waiting for the magic I know it exists to ignite. I don't know how to rate a A Darker Shade of Magic. Four stars are too much, three not enough, and I'll have to settle with 3.5 and a hope that A Gathering of Shadows will actually be the one that will disperse the shadows the debut of this trilogy cast.
1552709885	YA/adult Fantasy. There isn't just one London. There are, in fact, four cities sharing that name and geographic location, each in a very different plane of existence. The novel takes place in the early 1800s, when magical travel between the different Londons has been severely restricted. Long ago, the place called Black London underwent a massive magical accident -- a sort of implosion during which the forces of magic consumed the humans who tried to wield it. Since then, the doors between the worlds have been sealed. The only ones who can travel from world to world are the blood magicians known as Travellers. When we first meet the traveler Kell, he has arrived in Grey London (in our own un-magical world) to deliver a message from his own sovereigns of Red London to King George III and the Prince Regent. The existence of other Londons, we learn, is a closely guarded secret that only the rulers know. We follow Kell's travels from Grey London to his home, the magical Red London, to the sinister world of White London, ruled by a pair of despot siblings who make Vlad the Impaler look like a nice guy. At the same time, we meet a young thief of Grey London named Lila Bard, whose life becomes entwined with Kell's accidentally as they are both plunged into a plot to reawaken magic and tear down the walls between the worlds.Phew! Just describing the book makes it seem complicated, and it is an intricate world that V.E. Schwab has created, but it's not as confusing as it seems. I highly recommend checking it out if you like fantasy. The idea of four separate Londons is fascinating, and like all the best fantasies, this novel makes its system of magic seem absolutely plausible. Me -- I hope I never get stuck in White London. That place is YIKES. Having said that, I would definitely sign up for more adventures with Kell and Lila!
932442656	I'm so glad I decided to re-read this before carrying on with the trilogy! There were SO many things I had forgotten. Can't wait to get to book two! V.E. Schwab does it again! It amazes me how she continues to get better and better with each book she puts out into the world. I need the sequel ASAP.
1154697538	4.5 solid
2370444128	“I'm not going to die," she said. "Not till I've seen it.""Seen what?"Her smile widened. "Everything.” Kell - one of the last Antari - is playing a dangerous game. Being an Antari, he travels between worlds. He knows of four worlds and all four of them have one, conveniently overlapping city: London. Grey London - Magicless, technology driven. Red London - Magic is considered a gift and is practiced with careful determination White London - Magic is cruel, often needs to be stolen and locked into bodies Black London - Magic is hungry and all-consuming, magic apocalypse happened here. All magic, artifacts and people from Black London is banned from the other worlds.Kell frequently travels in and out of the Londons - passing along correspondence, adventuring and smuggling artifacts (that last bit is hugely illegal). After a visit to the cruel king and queen of White London, Kell is given an innocuous black stone and told to bring it to Red London. A bit buzzed and confused, he travels between worlds only to discover that the stone is actually a part of Black London.By smuggling the stone, Kell committed treason against the crown of Red London (his adopted family) but more importantly, the black stone contains remnants of that world's magic - seduction and hunger.Delilah "Lila" Bard lives in Grey London (not that she knows it). It's the only London without magic and she's spent her entire life looking for a way out. And then Kell lands on her doorstop. I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still. Kell immediately struggles with the power of the stone. And he soon realizes that although he may not want it, help will come to him in the form of one very, very stubborn Lila Bard. “Sure I do,” countered Lila cheerfully. “There’s Dull London, Kell London, Creepy London, and Dead London,” she recited, ticking them off on her fingers. “See? I’m a fast learner.” Whewww! I really enjoyed the start to this series!Schwab had such a unique idea - with the four Londons and their varying degrees of magic - and executed it extremely well. I loved all the details she included - it really made the story come alive. As for the characters...Lila (at times a bit over the top) really balanced out the seriousness and coldness of Kell. The two of them working together had a really natural feel - as evidenced by their free-flowing banter. “I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.”“I apologize for shooting you in the leg.” said Lila. “I was myself entirely.” I cannot wait to get started on book two!Audiobook CommentsRead by Steven Crossley - and he did a great job. This was a rather well-read audiobook. I do wish he would've had more emotion when it came to his characters but then again, Kell is supposed to be a little stand-offish.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
2050203917	”Magic was a truly beautiful disease.”And it was such a pleasure to read about it! XD I can’t say how much I loved and adored this book! Alone the magic in this was everything and it was so dark and twisted that it was a delight to read about it. In “A Darker Shade of Magic” magic is a living and breathing thing and it can help and heal at least as much as it can corrupt and destroy. In my opinion this was a really great concept and I lived and breathed for the execution of it. ”The words themselves were less important than the focus they brought to the speaker’s mind, the connection they helped to form, the power they tapped into. In short, the language did not matter, only the intention did.”Still, it wasn’t only the magical aspect of this book that kept me glued to the pages. The mere idea of four different parallel Londons that exist next to each other was more than just intriguing as well. Sure, we didn’t get to see an awful lot of them because the characters travel through them and don’t stay all too long, the little I saw was enough to keep me hooked though. ;-) London is my favourite city and the mere idea to explore four different versions of this town already made me feel like I won the jackpot. *lol*And last but not least “A Darker Shade of Magic” had its fair share of intriguing and complex characters that caused my eyes to sparkle. We all know that I can’t resist the temptation of morally grey and ambivalent characters so it’s no surprise that I savoured this like a delicious gourmet dinner. Alone the villains of this book!!! The Dane Twins were such evil creatures yet I couldn’t help but want to read more about them. Ohh and Holland! Don’t even get me started on Holland! <3 Or well, maybe I actually should start to talk about him. In the characters section, of course! ;-PThe characters: Good afternoon, fellow Antari! It’s a good day to travel between the worlds but be careful nevertheless. There is always a shadow lurking at the next corner of the street and if you’re not cautious it will not only attack you but also spoil you big time as well! Tread carefully, my dear friend! You’re being observed by dark forces. ;-) Kell:”Kell tipped his head so that his copper hair tumbled out of his eyes, revealing not only the crisp blue of the left one but the solid black of the right. A black that ran edge to edge, filling white and iris both. There was nothing human about that eye. It was pure magic. The mark of a blood magician. Of an Antari.”I’m such a sucker for red-heads and Kell is really yummy. ;-P I can’t help it! Really! They are my kryptonite. Ask Lucien. *lol* Anyway, Kell is a really interesting character and he definitely has more depth than initially meets the eye. On the outside you might think that he’s the typical hero, but the more I discovered about his life, the more I felt sorry for him. He is part of the royal family and might seem to have it all, but when push came to shove his true status among the royals was revealed and my heart ached for him. I know Lila didn’t understand what he meant but by the end of the book it became pretty clear that he wasn’t really a family member but rather a valuable asset. At least when it came to his “parents”. Despite this he still had his own moral code and acted according to it, even if it meant that he was at a disadvantage when he had to face Holland and the Dane twins. Poor Kell! I had the feeling in some way or another he was figuratively and quite literally bleeding throughout the entire book. *lol* Let’s hope things will get better for him in “A Gathering of Shadows”! ;-)”Magic was a living thing – that, everyone knew – but to Kell it felt like more, like a friend, like family. It was, after all, a part of him (much more than it was a part of most) and he couldn’t help feeling like it knew what he was saying, what he was feeling, not only when he summoned it, but always, in every heartbeat and every breath.”She always went looking for the truth in his right eye, as if it were a scrying board, something to be gazed into, seen past. But what she saw, she never shared. Kell took her hand and kissed it. “I’m fine, Your Majesty.” She gave him a weary look, and he corrected himself. “Mother.””I said Rhy forgave them.” Kell pushed to his feet. “I never said I did.”Lila Bard:”Death comes for everyone,” she said simply. “I’m not afraid of dying. But I am afraid of dying here.” She swept her hand over the room, the tavern, the city. “I’d rather die on an adventure than live standing still.” I’m not entirely sure if I like Lila or not. XD I mean I admire her resilience and stubbornness but I think sometimes she was way too sure of herself and that got her into a lot of trouble. *lol* But oh well, when it comes down to it there is no denying that I actually like her. Her character seems to be somewhat of an acquired taste and I’m curious if she’ll truly become a pirate in the end. Also I could relate to her when it came to her choice of clothes. I would have gone for the boy’s clothes in a heartbeat as well. ;-P (Could it be that Lila is non-binary or gender fluid?!) Generally speaking I think it wasn’t easy to relate to her because she kept everyone at a distance and didn’t let anything get too close to her. For me this made it kind difficult to gauge her character and I hope we’ll get a better grip on it in the next two books. Now that I think about it, I had the same feeling when it came to Blue Sargent throughout the first two books of “The Raven Cycle”. I only really got to know her in “Blue Lily, Lily Blue” so I hope the same will happen with Lila in the next book. XD”What are you?” he asked, amazed.Lila only shrugged. “Stubborn.””Love doesn’t keep us from freezing to death, Kell,” she continued, “or starving, or being knifed for the coins in our pocket. Love doesn’t buy us anything, so be glad for what you have and who you have because you may want for things but you need for nothing.” Holland:”He didn’t know if it was the evenness in the man’s tone or his strangely faded appearance or his haunted eyes – one black, of course, the other a milky green. Or perhaps it was the way he seemed to be made more of water and stone than flesh and blood and soul.”I love Holland, okay?! I know he’s supposed to be one of the villains but seriously, how could I not adore him?! <3 His character was so multi-layered, complex, calculating, determined and cruel. It was so nice to watch him in action. *lol* I just can’t resist a decent villain and Holland had all the makings of one. XD Especially an intriguing background story. I really wish we would have gotten more of it though. I mean we only got the necessary details to keep the story moving but there are so many things I would have loved to read about. I guess it was Schwab’s intention to keep us in the dark, because this might sound paranoid but I’m CONVINCED that Holland will reappear in the next book! I don’t buy his death!!! There’s no way he died! He said it’s hard to kill an Antari and he was still breathing and alive when Kell sent him to Black London. THE SOURCE of black magic! Hell, this has trouble written all over it! If you ask me Kell basically handed him the means to come back even stronger! >_< Kell is so going to regret this! ”Looking into Holland’s eye made her skin crawl. Dark things swirled just beneath the smooth black depths. One word whispered through her mind. Run.””Hesitation is the death of advantage,” mused Holland and Kell fought in vain against the metal pinnings.”I hope you made him suffer,” she spat, turning towards the looming castle.No, thought Kell as they set off. He suffered long enough.Rhy:“Yes. Because unless you plan to wed me yourself – and don’t get me wrong, I think we’d make a dashing pair – I must try and find a mate.”“And you think you’ll find one traipsing around the city?”“Goodness, no,” said Rhy with a crooked grin. “But who knows what fun I’ll find while failing.”Rhy is such a precious bean! He gave me Nikolai and Hypnos vibes so it’s no wonder I almost instantly adored him! *lol* He sounds like a lot of fun but unfortunately we didn’t get to see all too much of him in this book. I hope that will change in the next one though. (Also he seems to be unapologetically bi and I live and breathe for characters like that!!!) Still, judging by the little we saw and heard of him I can already tell that he loves Kell like a brother and would never do anything to harm him. I can’t help but wonder what he thinks about his parent’s reaction though. If Kell wouldn’t have been bound to him they would have either killed him or sent him to prison so it’s pretty obvious that Kell was right about their intentions all along. I can’t wait to see more of funny, caring and kind Rhy so there better be more scenes with him in “A Gathering of Shadows”. Also was it just me or did Holland and Rhy actually flirt with each other? It’s such a shame he was merely a means to an end for him. I bet from now on Rhy won’t trust people as easily as before. Rhy’s hands curled into fists. “How could you?” he said, and Kell worried that the prince was bitter about being tethered to him. Instead, Rhy said, “How could you carry that weight?”Rhy laughed silently. “I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.”“I apologize for shooting you in the leg,” said Lila. “I was myself entirely.”Rhy broke into his perfect smile.“I like this one,” he said to Kell.The Dane Twins:”Jealous?” he asked. Holland’s two-toned eyes held Athos’s, the green and the black both steady, unblinking. “He suffered,” added Athos softly. “But not like you.” He brought his mouth closer. “No one suffers as beautifully as you.”Okay! Can anyone please tell me how exactly Holland suffered?!!! I mean it’s indicated that there was something sexual and cruel going on between Athos and him but WHAT EXACTLY??!!! Apparently the Dane Twins had a reputation of torturing and forcing people to do their will. And Holland was under their spell as well so I can only assume that he suffered kind of “Rhysand/Amarantha style”? Also there was only a brief mention that Holland didn’t win the throne because he wasn’t cruel enough to take it before the Danes did. What exactly happened before they ascended the White throne?! I really wish we would have gotten more details here, because this really sounded like an interesting story! Either way the Dane twins gave me the creeps. Astrid even more than her brother Athos. Magic and malice indeed. *shudders* They made for pretty intriguing villains for sure. XD I’m just glad Kell never became Astrid’s toy. He certainly wouldn’t have survived it. ”Astrid Dane is made of magic and malice.”The relationships & ships:Lila & Kell:”You don’t know anything about these worlds,” he said, but the fight was bleeding out of his voice.“Sure I do,” countered Lila cheerfully. “There’s Dull London, Kell London, Creepy London, and Dead London,” she recited, ticking them off on her fingers. “See? I’m a fast learner.”Is it just me or was Kell ending up on Lila’s bed TWICE in one night some sort of a broad hint? The first time it was even BDSM style! *lol* I guess we all know in which direction their future relationship is going to head. Haha! ;-P Also they kissed at least twice for good luck as well and they both had more luck than brain. Right after the motto “Fortune favours fools!” So they didn’t need the luck but obviously were looking for an opportunity to kiss. XD They were very different but for some reason they still worked. Maybe it’s because they balance each other and magic is all about balance as we already learned. Plus they are both Antari. I wonder how their relationship is going to continue. There is a lot of potential that only needs to be explored. ;-P”I’m not going to die,” she said. “Not till I’ve seen it.”“Seen what?”Her smile widened. “Everything.”Kell smiled back. And then Lila brought her free hand to his jaw and tugged his mouth towards hers. The kiss was there and then gone, like one of her smiles.A wry smile cut across Lila’s mouth. “You’re a smuggler.”“Says the pickpocket,” snapped Kell defensively.Rhy & Kell:”What sons our parents have,” said Kell gently. “Between the two of us, we’ll tear the whole world down.” They might not be brothers by blood but they are brothers by heart! <33 I loved their relationship so much and I was so glad that Rhy truly cared about Kell! Which is more than can be said about his parents, but Kell already knew that. >_< I felt so sorry for him but at least he has Rhy and he wouldn’t allow anything to happen to him. Those two seem to balance each other as well and I’m kind of beginning to see a pattern here. *lol* In their relationship dynamic it seems like Rhy is the daredevil who gets into trouble though and Kell is more the mature and responsible one. I can only imagine in which kind of mess they’ll get in the next book. One thing is for sure, I can’t wait to read more about this brotherly duo! ;-P”He looked up and saw me crouching over him, bleeding, and the first thing he said wasn’t ‘What happened?’ or ‘Where are we?’ He touched the blood on his chest and said, ‘Is it yours? Is it all yours?’ and when I nodded, he burst into tears, and I took him home.”Conclusion:I absolutely LOVED this! “A Darker Shade of Magic” had everything I’m looking for in a book. There was (dark) magic, there were four parallel Londons and there were lots of complex characters I couldn’t help but want to read more about. Yes, the world building and some of the characters themselves might have been rather sketchy, but knowing Schwab I’m certain that we’ll get more details in the following books. This was only just the beginning and what a marvellous one it was! XD___________________________I’m going to read this! FINALLY!!! There are about a thousand of reasons why I wanted to read this for ages and yet I still didn’t manage to get to it! Typical me! I’m going to stop procrastinating now though!I’m ready to tackle this series BECAUSE:- Four parallel Londons! - Magic!- A smuggler!- A thief!- V.E. SCHWAB!!!! Do I even have to say more??!! I’m so ready for this! Just bring it on! I got this! XD
1619565528	"Death comes for everyone. I'm not afraid of dying. But I am afraid of dying here. I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still.” And it indeed WAS a great adventure. I’m so glad I picked up this book. Should have done this long ago. Kell is a magician named Antari. He has the ability to travel between Londons. Kell works for Red London royalty. Or should I say- was adopted by the royalties. But, he has always felt as a possession and not as a family member. Well, except for the relationship with Rhy- who he claims to be his brother. There are 4 Londons- Red (Kell’s London), White London (ruled by the Danes), Black London (long gone), and Grey London (which is our London).The setting, the world that Schwab built, is so brilliant and fascinating. The different ways of which London lives, how Kell found names to each London, by the way they function. I especially love the story behind Black London- which is sealed because it was consumed by magic.Kell meets Lila, a pickpocket in grey London- strong and spunky- a girl who desires to be a pirate, and longs for adventure. She finds the opportunity by sticking to Kell’s mission- to return the black stone to Black London- where it belongs.I loved both Kell and Lila, and I really loved how they worked together as a team. I loved the fact that at first they didn’t really care about each other. In fact, the reason they met was because Lila stole the dangerous artifact from Kell. And then- how they found themselves willing to be in a dangerous position just to help each other. There’s no love story- just a great partnership that grows stronger. Which is amazing, because if you know me, you'll know that I appreciate love that comes from acquaintance. And who said there would be romance between them? Even if that seems to happen. And that's the kind of excitement I like- to wait and see what happens between these two.Kell was likable from the very beginning. I love how vulnerable he seemed to be at the beginning, because he wasn’t really in any real danger. Then he realized how strong he really was, and so were we.I also liked Rhy, and I was sad that I didn't get the chance to really know him as a character.Holland is another Antari, who belongs to the dangerous, magic-lusting White London.To be honest, I didn’t like him at first. I knew he was bad only because he couldn’t resist the Danes, and that’s why I understand his motives. But I was angry with him because he tried to kill Kell, and I fucking love Kell. I do hope Holland will be in the sequels because I want to know more about him.Another thing I liked about White London are Athos and Astrid, who were really great villains. They were strong, smart, sadistic and ruthless. It made me excited about the way they behave, and I was curious how Kell would deal with them.The downside that made me give this book only 4 stars is because it wasn’t a book I couldn’t put it down. The beginning was mostly a back story, and it took me a while to get into the vibe of the plot. After the shit started happening- I got hooked (finally) and couldn’t put the book down.By the way- Kell has a mysterious coat that has a different look for every place he visits (and there are so many- some coats he has never seen, or seen once, and then never again). How amazing is that? I want this coat.
1845323738	This is an unpopular opinion, if you’re easily offended, please don’t read this review.Okay, 3 stars is still a good rating but I think rating aDSoM 3 stars on Goodreads is like I’m an E.T who arrives in London. This is my sixth month on Goodreads and throughout that period, there are three series that always appeared on my feeds and probably everyone else. First, Six of Crows duology, second, anything that came out of Sarah J Maas’s head and finally, the Shade of Magic trilogy by V.E Schwab. It needed to be said first that I’m not a fan of the YA genre but these series are hyped as drug dealers search for heroin and I decided to give some of them a try with hope it will changed my mind on the genre. Sadly it didn’t, Six of Crows duology disappointed me (Oh look, so many arrows. Casted magic barrier to block all the arrows shooting at me), this book also disappointed me (Magic Barrier is now broken) and I won’t even touch anything by Sarah J Maas. (Endless arrow pinned me to a wall.)Don’t get me wrong, I never said I hated the Six of Crows duology or this book, it disappointed me but I actually think both series is still good to read. I actually liked this book for a while until the underwhelming climax happened. It’s just a shame there are a lot of parts that obstructed me from loving aDSoM. I love V.E Schwab’s work on Vicious, it was unique, morally ambiguous, suited for adult audience and have great characters. It’s why I gave this series a try and turns out I’ve been fooled. aDSoM’s plot is really YA-ish and it’s the exact opposite of what made Vicious great for me.There is nothing remotely interesting about the plot. It’s a very typical McGuffin story which had been overdone to death already. These days, there are a lot of stories and themes that have been overdone but somehow managed to deliver immersive and intriguing plot with great casts of characters and their developments. That’s the other main problem with ADSoM, I’m so detached from the story and the characters that I honestly don’t care about any of them if they died or not. There are no developments at all for the main characters except Lila. Kell is angsty but he cares about Rhy, Rhy is gay (or bisexual or nymphomania I don’t know, seems like he’ll have sex with anything that moves.) and he cares about Kell, Lila is adventurous, “I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still.” Holland is mysterious and the Dane Twins is sadistic. There, I talked about the main characters personality and their development progression throughout this whole book within one sentence. Lila and Holland is probably the only saving characters of this book, Lila character is more fleshed out compared to the rest and for Holland, he’s just more interesting and every scene where he appears really shine for the book.Holland and the Dane TwinsI honestly prefer Holland to be the main character compared to Kell. Seriously, out of everything I ever read, Kell is one of the most boring character of all time. The only thing intriguing about him is his coat and it's always a bad sign when the clothes is more captivating than the person. Don’t even compare him with Kelsier from Mistborn just because they have similar name, just… don’t.Finally, the last problem I have with the book is the underwhelming magic and climax. If there's one thing that V.E Schwab haven't improved since Vicious, it’s definitely the climax scene delivery. Vicious would have received a 5 star from me if it wasn’t for the super underwhelming climax and sadly, it’s still the same here. Even all the action scenes in the book are really standard and provides zero intensity. I read the climax sequences with a face and emotion so flat that drinking a hot Chamomile tea will give more reaction to my emotion.Now, with all the problems I have with the book, you’re probably wondering why this is not a 1 star or 2 star review. Here’s the thing, even with all the negativity, I still don’t hate the book, I still enjoy reading it. Why? Because of these 3 factors that really shine from aDSoM. 4 alternative London concept, V.E Schwab’s writing and Kell’s Coat, yes that coat is a work of brilliance and deserve an extra star.The 4 color alternative London is a really great concept, it’s one of the biggest reasons why I bought this book in the first place other than the fact I thought it will be more adult oriented than Vicious. It’s like V.E Schwab took Neil Gaiman’s Neverwhere imagination and gave it a twist to make it her own idea. All 4 version of London have their unique characteristic. Grey London, our version of London which smells like smoke, Red London, Kell’s version of London which smelled like fire, White London, the Dane Twin’s & Holland’s version of London which smelled like blood and finally Black London, the lost London which smelled like teen spirit. Okay I’m joking, there is no known smell to Black London since no one can go there anymore. I do wish there’s an explanation though on why there is 4 London in the first place since the setting is in our real world, maybe the future sequels will enlighten me on this.I have always loved Schwab’s writing, her choices of words and pages format never fails to make me turn those pages even when things aren’t interesting. Finally, Kell’s coat, I won’t talk about this much since I honestly think it’s better for you to find out about this peculiar coat on your own. If I have Kell’s coat, I don’t think I’ll ever need another coat again. Take note fashion designers, when you make do a Men’s fashion show, Kell’s Coat is the kind of shit I will buy in a heartbeat.Not this cereals costumeNot this Frankenstein’s monster wannabe, why would I want to eliminate my own neck?And for the love of all that is holy and sacred not this abominationDespite everything, I still like the book enough to finish it and I still have hope for the future sequels. It won't be soon but I will continue with the series eventually with really low expectation. I’m hoping a Gathering of Shadows and a Conjuring of Light will be better than aDSoM since obviously to me this book is clearly an Overhyped Shade of Magic. It lacked a touch of brilliance to make the book reach its maximum potential that the concept provides and I sincerely hope the sequels will receive the shade of magic it needs.Booknest
1357108272	My spoiler free video review is now up!!: https://youtu.be/hINnk0eqj8I4.5 StarsAll I can say is WOW!That was incredible!! First off, the characters were FANTASTIC! Schwab is truly a master when it comes to crafting multidimensional, well rounded, and flawed characters. Rhy is so pure and precious. Kell deserves love and happiness. And Lila. Lila Bard is my new queen. This was truly one of the most realistic fantasy worlds I've ever read about. I mean that in the sense that the world seemed like something that could actually exist. The world was complex and intricate, but just grounded enough that the concept of 4 parallel London's is something I can truly conceptualize. In other words, it made me believe that the magic was real. As always, Schwab's writing was absolutely engaging. It's concise and simplistic, yet still full of warmth and depth. This book was a bit slower paced but I thought that it matched the world perfectly. It was fast-paced and action-packed where it needed to be and still took its time to develop the world and characters completely. Needless to say, I loved it. And I can't wait to continue on in the series!
1868502489	“I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.”“I apologize for shooting you in the leg,” said Lila. “I was myself entirely.” Actual Rating: 4 1/2 Stars, but honestly every time I round this down I end up putting it back up a day later. So you may notice this book is kind of polarizing within the adult sff community; a little bit And for me personally it is.... such a fave. I keep returning to this world and these characters and I doubt I’ll ever stop.For the approximately five people who don’t know, A Darker Shade of Magic is about a world with four parallel worlds, all very different but sharing the same London. There’s Grey London, aka our world. Red London, a land of magic and peace. White London, a land of turmoil and war and an overuse of magic. And Black London, the land where magic went wrong and burnt out. Only a few people can travel between worlds, and when one of the only two left, Kell, discovers a magic stone that could destroy his world, he and non-magical Lila go on a journey to put it back. Let's get the problems out of the way - the plotting is a mixed bag. Pro: fast-paced and never boring. This book is a 400-page wild ride. Con: literally no driving force behind the plot. The characters don't even have a quest until around page 200, and it makes the entire book feel just a bit messy. This is a problem Victoria Schwab tends to have a lot [she’s my favorite author so I’m allowed to say this], where her characters just meander around in search of an end goal. This.... kills her series conclusions. Like, it’s killed both of the series enders I’ve read by her for me personally, and this is coming from the bitch who has five starred every single other book I’ve read by her. But it doesn’t really hurt the plot that much here, so it’s fine, and we’ll just address that more in the ACOL review. “What are you?” she asked. “A monster,” said Kell hoarsely. “You'd better let me go.”The girl gave a small, mocking laugh. “Monsters don't faint in the presence of ladies.” “Ladies don't dress like men and pick pockets,” retorted Kell. Her smile only sharpened. “What are you really?” “Tied to your bed," said Kell matter-of-factly.“And?” His brow furrowed. “And in trouble.” The main thing I always come back to about this book is that it is deeply, deeply magical . It was nigh-impossible for me to not be engaged in this story. The writing style is SO GOOD, lyrical and gorgeous and with a really nice flow to it; one of my good blogger friends discussed her sentence structure, and it is so fantastic. The worldbuilding is creative and intriguing and perhaps best of all, makes a surprising amount of sense for such a wild concept. Also, I would die for these characters. Oddly, they didn't totally grow on me until like... 2/3 of the way into the book? While I could recognize from the beginning that the leads were well-developed and interesting, it took me a while to feel as if I had a concrete concept of who they are. And then we got to the ending and I was screaming in agony at the thought of these characters dying, and I was like "oh shit" and realized how much I love Kell and Lila and Rhy and how much I care about their relationships. V.E. Schwab does a lot of showing, not telling, which makes the character development a bit more subtle; these characters are based off their motivations perhaps even more than their actual traits. And both of these things mean you’re less invested in the beginning and then.... more invested in the end. Slow start, flawless payoff.I actually want to talk a little more specifically about these characters because when I think back on this series, they are always what come to mind. Kell is a grumpy child who we love anyway. Lila is a fucking badass genderfluid thief with a soft side and I love her. Rhy is a bisexual prince [literally] who spends half his time dragging people. Even Holland, the sort-of-villain, is a super dynamic and intriguing character. Oh, and then the relationships: Kell and Lila, y’all. Kell and Lila are my ride-or-die book couple and I love their dynamic and I love how they’re constantly dragging each other and just. fuck. I love them. I also really really like Kell and Rhy’s relationship, which is so ridiculously loving and caring? They are perhaps two of the most different people ever and they love each other so much it's beautiful. I also kind of love that 98% of the dynamics in this book kind of read like everyone has dated everyone else and it’s now Really Awkward [this is both Kell & Holland and also Rhy & Holland and it later becomes the canon dynamic of Rhy & Alucard, and it's hilarious]. If anyone wants to come for me about this, I point to That Time Victoria Schwab Said That Every Character In This Series Should Be Read As Queer. No, that is not the only reason why I like this series, and yes, they’re all bi icons and you can’t take that away from me. Anyway. Super highly recommended for fans of creative, engaging fantasy. Blog | Goodreads | Twitter | Youtube
1700680496	Carefully crafted world building; well-developed and likable characters; a heroine that's both kickass and maturely written; and a very pretty book cover to top it all off. I've stayed up past bedtime to read this book and it's well worth it.
1291318032	*Upon a reread, my passion for this book stands. I love it so much. I can't believe I actually get to move on to book 2 this time. I JUST LOVE IT. My thoughts: "Now, think critically. There were one or two things you maybe didn't love quite as much as everything else. A 4.5 accurately sums up your feelings and shows you didn't think the book was absolutely perfect."My actions: *RUNS DOWN THE STREET SCREAMING "5 STARS OF PERFECTION" AT ANYONE WHO WILL LISTEN*
1245432608	“A life worth having is a life worth taking.”Wow. I'm stunned and I'm in awe.Incredible world-building, beautiful language and an intruiging plot make this 5 out of 5 stars. And let's not forget about the "cross-dressing thieves", "sadistics kings (and queens)" and my favourite the "royal who is equal parts Prince Harry and Jack Harkness". I love Rhy.This novel started as it ended: magical, sensational and breath-taking. It is as beautiful from the outside, as it is from the inside. It's the kind of book you want to keep reading and at the same time to never end.This is one of the best examples of world-building there is. A world (or better: four worlds) so complex and so big, needs a skilled writer to make it feel real. Schwab mastered that skill and made ADSOM far from one-dimensional. There is so much to see, so much to feel, so much to find out. A book like this keeps you pondering for quite a while and even longer.Victoria Schwab turns out to be one of my new favorite authors.Find more of my books on Instagram
1920506835	#1 A Darker Shade of Magic ★★★★★ #2 A Gathering of Shadows ★★★★★#3 A Conjuring of Light ★★★★★"There's Dull London, Kell London, Creepy London, and Dead London. See? I'm a fast learner." Despite the fact that the four Londons share a name, they have little else in common; one is brimming with life, one is held captive by wicked rulers, one has no magic at all, and one is dead. While there used to be traversing between the Londons, now the doors have been sealed to all except the Antari: magicians with the ability to command blood itself, allowing them to travel between the parallels.One of the last two remaining Antari in the world, Kell, is the unofficial carrier of messages between the three living Londons, but his entire world comes crumbling down around him when he is tricked into taking a magical object that has enemies hunting him down from one city to the next. When Lila, a young thief and aspiring pirate, is drawn into the middle of his adventure, Kell must learn that the boundaries between good and evil magic aren't as defined as he once thought they were, and he must straddles those boundaries to right what has been made wrong.---This book was my first ever Schwab read, and I went into it a little bit apprehensive, because she is so widely loved that I wondered if this series would live up to the expectations I had for it. I picked it up for the Life & Lit June group read, and ended up putting it off until the last possible minute because I was so wary, but my nervousness was entirely unfounded. This book was phenomenal!KELL ➳➳What can I even say? Kell is one of the most lovable male MCs I've seen in a really long time. He's so loving and protective, despite his ongoing self-identity crises regarding his family. He loves his brother Rhy with a fierceness that I couldn't get enough of, and he's just so genuinely good in his heart that I couldn't help but root for him. He's one of those MCs that makes me afraid to continue the series because I can't handle anything terrible happening to him.LILA ➳➳I didn't really know what to make of Lila at first, because to be frank, her excuses for thievery kind of rubbed me the wrong way. Like... you're just going to steal from all of these people because you can? I wouldn't have minded so much if she just stole food or whatever, but trinkets? (I revisited this annoyance a few times later in the book, too.) Overall, though, I really enjoyed her sassy attitude and the way she refused to let anyone tell her what to do or hold her down. I loved that she insisted on going on an adventure, even if it meant risking her life, and her interactions with Kell were just adorable.RHY ➳➳Adorable. Absolutely adorable. He actually made me cry a few times because he just is so pure and innocent and golden.HOLLAND ➳➳Holland honestly gave me the sketchiest vibes ever from the beginning, but I think he's a fantastic character and I pitied him more often than not. I know some shit went down, but I really hope we get to learn more about him later in the series.PLOT & WORLD ➳➳I thought the plot, as well as the world-building, were absolutely incredible. I loved the idea of these parallel cities that the Antari could travel between, and I thought the magic system was beautifully built up. Too many books ignore the foundation for their magic systems and you're kind of left just going, "oh, well, it's magic and that's that," but Schwab didn't do that at all in this book. The idea of these Antari being sort of the chosen ones who could control blood was just badass as hell, and I really hope that Kell and Holland aren't actually the only ones left.WRITING ➳➳Like I said, this was my first time ever reading anything by Victoria Schwab, so I had no idea what to expect. My very first impression from the opening segment, Kell wore a very peculiar coat.It had neither one side, which would be conventional, nor two, which would be unexpected, but several, which was, of course, impossible. was that her writing reminded me a great deal of Tolkien, circa The Hobbit. As I got further into the book, I did find that Victoria's voice is very much her own, but I enjoyed it to no end. It was the perfect balance of straightforward and flowery prose, and it painted a splendid picture while never wasting too much time on the details.FINAL VERDICT ➳➳Overall, I thought this book was a fantastic beginning to a series and I cannot wait to continue with book #2. I gave this an easy 5/5 stars and would recommend it to anyone who likes three-dimensional high fantasy read, full of a delightful set of characters and a terrifically intriguing world.You can find this review (and more) on my blog here!
2103166400	I recently met V.E. Schwab and found her entertaining and charming. So I acquired one of her books! I don't think my review of this work is affected by knowing the author, but I like to be transparent.I always like to avoid spoilers, but in this case, I think the book jacket gives away a bit of the setting, so I'll share it here as well. Imagine four Londons, existing simultaneously but separately. Each has a differing amount of magic, with black London a loss, and Red London a place where magic is like an extra sensory level. Kell is our protagonist, a young man with the very rare ability to travel among the London's. Indeed, that is one of his duties, for the royalty of each London are aware of one another and wish to stay in touch. Kell is a de facto member of the royal family of Red London, treated as a son and brother, but also as a value possession.The one thing that is forbidden to Kell is to bring artifacts or souvenirs from one London to another. And of course, that is the pivot point of the story. And it should be enough to intrigue you into sampling it.The tale is told from multiple points of view. I liked how the characters were introduced as well as how the Londons were shown. No time is wasted in pulling the reader into the story, and once the action begins, it is relentless. I was pleased to see how advanced magic mimics technology in Red London, for I feel that this is an aspect that is often neglected in stories of worlds where magic exists and is exploited as commonplace. I also felt that the way Kell is exploited by his adoptive and loving family has deep roots in human nature. Given the ruthless nature of Kell's antagonists, the story does not flinch from some very dark violence. All good points in my estimation.Quibbles: This book is part of a longer series. As I drew toward the close and realized that not all the conflicts could be resolved in the remaining number of pages, I wished that I had known that from the start. At one point in the story, the characters have a sanctuary and an ally that I wished had been introduced sooner. But both of these quibbles are based on my personal preference and may not impact your reading enjoyment at all! And given the teaser chapter in the back of this book, it looks as if A Gathering of Shadows may focus more on one of the characters I especially enjoyed.All in all, a solidly constructed fantasy with fully realized characters and a unique setting!
1182211403	3.5 starsThere was just something about this one that kept it from totally rocking, and I can't quite put my finger on what it was. It was good, just not (for me) great.Kinda dry maybe? Or I just didn't totally connect with the characters? Not sure.But it's still one of those books that I'm glad I read, and I'm actually really looking forward to reading more about this world/worlds that Schwab created. And I seriously mean that! There's something cool about this setting and these characters that makes me want to see what's going to happen next. I kind of feel like maybe the first book was just a set-up, and now that the world-building is done, this series (trilogy?) is gonna take off!Because that happens, right? Book one is sorta dry and crunchy, and then book two rocks!*nods head*Yes. I'm feeling confident about that prediction for some reason. I loved Vicious, I loved the world that she created in this one...totally confident.*cough*Anyway. My point is that I can see why so many of my friends loved this, and I don't want anyone to mistake a 3.5 rating as something bad.I don't understand why anyone would think that to start with, but...there's always one.*eyeballs crowd*So the gist of the story is that this wizardish (Traveler) character named Kell is one of the 2 people alive who has the ability to move between worlds. Londons , to be exact. There are 4 different alternate worlds out there, and the only thing they have in common is that London is a city in each of them. Grey London = Us There's no magic left in our world.Red London = KellHis world has a perfect balance with magic, and it's a pretty nice place to live.White London = Dangerous Their world has squeezed magic so hard that it's retreating from them. It's filled with desperate people willing to do bad shit for power.Black London = DeadSomething happened and they were overtaken by evil magic, sealed off from the other worlds, and now exists only as a cautionary tale.The point? Magic is real!Without spoiling anything, he gets robbed by a scrappy thief from our Grey London, and the two form a strange friendship/partnership. It's sweet without being romantic...YET. And that's a real selling point for me. It's not that I don't lovelovelove romance in my books, but as I get older/more crotchety, I find myself seriously digging the Slow Burn storylines better than the instant attraction stuff. I get the appeal, but it just makes me scoff at this point in my life. When I read about a couple who seem to fly into each other's arms in a fit of passion, all while declaring their undying love for each other? Instead of oohing and cooing like a normal person...This! This is what I see!Ok, besides a non-awkward romance, this has a few other cool things going for it, as well.1) Cool family dynamics! Kell's part of a magical Royal Family. Well, sorta, but not really. It's...complicated.2) Delilah (possibly) has a secret origin! Is there more to her than meets the eye? *wink, wink* {insert spoilery inside joke here}Still, even without anything extra, she's a tough little cookie. 3) The worlds themselves are just plain interesting. I think Schwab did a good job describing the different Londons because all of them felt very real and well thought out. But I've always had a thing for alternate versions of our world stacked on top of each other, so this was right up my ally, to begin with! And how cool would it be to have the ability to slide in and out of each of those?!Ok, so even if it didn't really satisfy me as much as I had hoped, I'm all in for the next book!Also reviewed for:
2460226323	i have an unexpected three day weekend and i cant think of a more productive way to spend it than by starting a new series/trilogy! so i did queen schwab the honour of entering and experiencing her world of many londons.okay, one thing that i have come to realise is that schwab is a grower, not a shower, as it takes me quite some time before i feel settled within her stories. i would even say she has perfected the art of a slow burn because at times when i didnt feel like anything is happening, i was still enjoying myself. and im certain that had to do with the brilliant writing and world building. im very much a plot person, so i was thrilled when i found myself not caring about what was going to happen next because i was so caught up with the characters and the environment and the magic. the writing was so detailed and skilled, and i think that made all the difference for me. overall, this was an very entertaining read! even though most of the time i had no idea where the story/series was going (and i still dont because this could have worked as a standalone), i would be lying if i said i wasnt desperate to find out. so bring on book two!↠ 4 stars
2152716826	So... I finally finished this book. I say finally because it took me a lot to get through - and into- it, and I'm not entirely satisfied with what I read.I'm a huge Victoria Schwab's fan, she's both an amazing author and a really kind person that I'd spend days worshiping. Vicious is one of my favorite books of all time and her writing is very original. Yet this book... I can't tell you if I loved it or not, if maybe I should try and reread it in another moment, because maybe I'm too dumb to get its awesomeness on the first try, or dump it because it's not my cup of tea. I don't know a single thing, and in my mind it's a solid three. Not here, not there. In the middle. It's not a bad book -quite the opposite, actually-, and I do get the hype to some extent, but maybe I wished that it suit my reader needs more than it actually does. The magic system is probably the thing I liked the most, it added that dark atmosphere I always expect in one of VS's books. I can't say the same for the characters, unfortunately, because, aside from Rhy - and sometimes Kell, too- I didn't like any character in particular. I'm looking at you, Lila. You were a pain. The plot is good, I love London and the way its portrayed, but I had trouble following the writing at times. I found some parts a little dull or anticlimactic, and I had to put it down often because I kept getting distracted by other things. The twists and stabs were absolutely great, though. I can see a lot of her writing in dynamic scenes and I appreciate the author's talent. Overall, this is a good book, and I'm probably going to continue with the trilogy when I have some time. I just feel like something is missing.
1985708965	Kell is a magician-but a special kind of old-who has the ability through blood magic to cross the dimensions in to the different worlds, each of which has a London. Raised in Red London with his prince brother Rhy, Kell is a messenger, taking letters from the Red Royalty to those of other Londons. In Grey London-boring, magicless London-Kell runs in to his enemies as well as Lila, a thief, and must dispose of an object that has brought a whole different type of magic to the fore.The premise of A Darker Shade of Magic is interesting. It is not wholly unique, but it is intriguing and has elements of being something that had extreme potential, but unfortunately the severe lack of plot, the abysmal world-building and the utterly annoying characters really let it down.The four Londons-and I expect there are more-was the most wonderful thing about this book (and, sadly, the only thing). This is a wonderful concept, but it was never explored fully. I acknowledge this book is the first in a series, but we barely scratched the surface of any of these worlds in a 400-page long book. In a 400-page long book I expect there to be many travels and many subplots when put in the hand of a good writer. This book had one plot and one world, it just so happens it was called different worlds.The writing wasn't particularly bad (though I have no idea why anyone thinks adding extra information within parentheses is a good idea?) but it never truly captivated me. I was never drawn in, my attention was never wholly held. It was good, it was more competent than a lot of authors out there, but it was nothing special. It was simply adequate.My main gripe would be the world-building (or total lack thereof), but similarly and coming a very close second were the characters. Under-developed, obvious and annoying are only three words to describe them. Kell was the most developed, but even then he was rather obvious at times, though some of his decisions were conveyed well. I cannot bring myself to write about the pathetic character of Lila, who I hope dies horribly at some point in the series. The other characters-though billed at main-were background at best. We got no sense of any of them, except perhaps Rhy but even then he was under-developed.For a 400-page book, there needs to be more than just a stupid plot about a magic stone. There are no subplots, no subterfuge, no otherness about it. There was nothing at all, except a short story that was stretched out and stuffed full of padding to satisfy a word count.
2709901713	4.5/5 ⭐Full review on my Blog: The Dacian She-Wolf 🐺 “Magic was truly a beautiful disease.” Up until now, I haven’t read a single Schwab book that disappointed me to the point I’d hate it.And A Darker Shade of Magic is no exception. I bloody loved it!Do you know that feeling you have when you start a new video game and your character simply drops in the middle of everything that’s going on and you have no idea what is happening but you already feel like you are part of a whole new world?Well, that’s how I felt about the world V.E. Schwab created for us in this magical series.From the very beginning, I was fascinated by the insanely good world-building. It doesn’t take much to get me on board, but when you know how to build up your world so that I feel like I’m right there in the middle of it all – I’m definitely your girl. “Battles may be fought from the outside in, but wars are won from the inside out.” The atmosphere was filled with magic and a distinct note of dystopia. It also used to change from London to London.The concept of this whole world was that there were multiple worlds overlapping each other. The centre of the action was London.There was a Grey London (magicless, dull, poor, simple), a Red London (vibrant, filled with beauty, magic, wealth), a White London (dangerous, rotten, bloodthirsty) and a Black London (which was nothing more than blackness and nothingness now).Pretty neat concept, don’t you think? Kell, one of the most important characters in this series, has a somehow unique gift: he is one of the very, very few people (and by very, very few I mean two) who are able to travel between those overlapping worlds.The rest of the people either have no idea that other Londons exist or they can’t do anything about it because they lack the ability to travel between them.I can honestly say that I fell in love with Kell from the beginning. There was something interesting, alluring about him and about the way he acted that simply aroused my interest. I wasn’t quite sure if I was supposed to like him (you never know with Schwab anyway) but by the end of the book, I was definitely pretty much in love with him. Lila was also a character that I loved.Born in the magicless grey world, Lila managed to find her own way and survive the wickedness of her poverty and loneliness, aspiring to things young ladies do not, in general. Which is sad. If a girl wants to be a pirate, I’d say “Let the girl be a pirate!”. The worlds are already filled with princesses.What I truly appreciated about Lila was that she wasn’t constructed to be pleasant to the eye. She wasn’t the usual ‘I don’t even know my own beauty’ type of character. She knew she was undesirable to men and she made sure she stayed that way.She was an androgynous figure, prone to mischief and fascinated by men clothing and ships and the sea and she knew just right how to always turn that in her favour.You go, Delilah Bard! As always, Schwab’s characters are hard to like. And that is simply because, at some degree, every single one of them has a hidden agenda.I’m dying over there, reading and wanting to love some of them but I simply have to talk myself out of it. First, I observe, then I fall in love. “You may be the bravest, boldest soul I’ve ever met, but you’re still too much flesh and blood and too little power.” However, I really like the characters in the way they are constructed. There is certain evilness even in the good ones that simply adds more to their personalities because life is never about black and white.Overall, this was a very good, imaginative book, with three-dimensional characters and an amazing storyline.Schwab never stops amazing me with her overly complex mind and I am, yet again, a big fan of her work. “We can’t all turn blood and whispers into weapons.”
1766354609	I don’t know what I can say that hasn’t been said before. But in short, this is just perfect. Every page is magic and every scene has a purpose. The characters bring life into this book. The magic system and the writing style is unique and a breath of fresh air. VE Schwab’s writing style truly shines through and I loved every moment of this. Reading this book feels like stumbling into something wholly new and familiar at the same time. Reading this was an adventure with magic and drama. Reading this felt like taking on this world, (and other worlds), it was such an amazing experience.
1869222565	Update: 5 starsWho was I kidding OF COURSE THIS WAS A 5 STAR READ. I can't stop thinking about it and I love it so much. 4.5 stars!!!!!I ALREADY KNOW THIS SERIES WILL BECOME AN ALL TIME FAVE.
7029406061	⤷I think I have a complicated relationship with this book 😭 The concept of the three Londons was pretty interesting, but I was disappointed that we didn't really get to explore Black London very much with the direction of the plot... The synopsis was pretty much the entire book (if you know what I mean), and it dragged a long time before things started happening 😕 Like nothing happened but I was still addicted at some points (more compelling towards the end). I liked Kell and Lila's banter, but she kind of switches between being a badass and just plain stubborn/annoying in other moments... I just wished Kell stood on his grounds more 🥲 The 3rd person POVs of the side characters were an interesting touch, but I couldn't care less about any of them :') Still fun enough to make me read the 2nd book though!! Took me 3 months to write a review because I still can't decide how I feel, so sorry if this review gives you whiplash :')["How did you know?" she asked, looking down at the rubble of the queen. "How did you know she wasn't me?"Kell managed an exhausted smile. "Because she said please."]
1866753461	Damn! This had everything I ever need in a fantasy novel.- Intricate yet understandable magic system- Original world building- Little to no romance- Solid evil villains- Fantastic characters with humour- Addictive storylineGuys I absolutely adored this, and how has it taken me this long to read?Writing this, I cannot think of even 1 think I disliked. Kell is an Antari someone with magic powers, able to travel between the 4 Londons. Red - his home, Grey - the dull London where magic is nearly all gone and White - where magic is controlled and used to assume power, and once there was a Black London, consumed and destroyed.When Kell becomes tangled up in some dark magic, he takes it upon himself to make it right. Along with Lila Bard - a thief and cut-throat he just can't seem to shake. I loved this. I don't know what else to say. This was my first Schwab book, but it absolutely will not be my last! Roll on book 2! :) ****************************************************Outstanding!!!!
2447511845	Kell wore a very peculiar coat. do you know when i first knew i loved kell maresh? it was less than ten pages in, when he was in the prince regent's room and he was snuffing out the candles just to be petty. or maybe it was even before that, when he spun a letter for the mad, blind king because he felt bad that the actual letter he was supposed to deliver was only three sentences long. he is without a doubt one of the most precious characters i have ever seen. and i don't know the exact moment i realised kell maresh was going to own my heart, but i know now that i am irrevocably in love with him. a darker shade of magic is beyond anything i've ever read. victoria schwab writes with lyrical, flowing prose that stole my breath. i couldn't put this book down, and on the occasions i had to, emerging from victoria's world into the real world made me dazed, the way you feel after you read a very captivating book. there are some books that make you feel like literature is magic, and this is one of them. 🌟 THE PLOT a darker shade of magic has this ethereal atmosphere in my head. i close my eyes, and i can feel the bite of the cold wind, i can see the city unfolding in front of me, i can almost feel the cobblestones of the streets beneath my feet. victoria schwab made her world come to life in my head, painted in blazing, vibrant colors. this woman knows how to WRITE. her prose is beautiful and makes you want to hang onto every word. descriptive without being too tedious, and satisfying without being too predictable, she managed to weave together the stories of all four londons without a single snag. her idea sounds farfetched, but she made it make sense in an effortless way, and i wasn't confused at all. i wanted to live in her world so badly it ached.that's half the reason i absolutely LOVE this book, and the other half is the characters. so often, i find that books focus on a main character, perhaps two, and the side characters are left as plot devices or existing out of necessity. but every single character in this book is very well developed, and their complexity is what makes you root for them and ultimately love them. 🌟 KELL i didn't mean for this to turn into a love letter to kell but it kind of already HAS because i would literally protect him with my life!! kell maresh, my gorgeous darling -- reserved, perceptive, calm, powerful, and most of all a very complex and layered character. but what really threw me was his sense of personal responsibility and his quiet strength. and the fact that beneath all that, he loves with a fierce, unshakable loyalty that took my breath away. he will do absolutely anything for the people he lets in. i didn't know this before i read about kell, but he takes every trait that i find attractive and embodies them in one package. is it any wonder that i fell so hard for him? i think why i love kell so much is because he's undoubtedly a white knight. he's the most badass guy in the book and he's obviously the hero. but he's a complicated, sometimes self-serving, very flawed one and that's why i'm so hopelessly drawn to him. he makes mistakes, he’s stubborn, he’s definitely not perfect. but he’s also powerful, and intelligent, and loyal. and kind — the entire story started because he wanted to help someone. i just really love him like he's the kind of person who's really grumpy but will do anything for the people he loves and is always quietly there for them?? god please take my heart(and also he is perpetually frowning which might have been meant to come off as intimidating but no it's just adorable, honestly)anyway maybe one day i will finally not get easily devastated over fictional characters and maybe i will not feel like i have the personal responsibility to take care of them but today is not that day. so for now i’m the struggling mother of 2873249 children and that number is now 2873250 because it includes kell maresh and i wouldn’t have it any other way.🌟 LILA my relationship with lila was SO rocky throughout this book. i loved her when she made her first appearance. then i started to dislike her because i thought she was pushy and annoying and stubborn. but in the end what made me grudgingly like lila was her spirit, her fierce will to survive, and how alive she was. i saw myself in her, both the positive and negative qualities. everyone knows i have a soft spot for heroines who take their fate into their own hands and take a few people down on the way. that's lila. 🌟 HOLLAND everybody probably hates holland vosijk BUT. it might come as a surprise to you that I DO NOT. he's the villain you think twice about, the one you hate to love. i think one of schwab's greatest talents is making her characters morally grey and emotionally complex, so that you resent the heroes and love the villains a little more than you should. holland is the murky character with a tormented past that has shaped his personality and his decisions. he is a fighter, a hunter, a killer, and quite possibly my favorite character in this book (besides kell, obviously).🌟 RHY oh rhy, precious cinnamon roll. a handsome prince who is the joy of his people and who presents a sunny facade in public for all the world to see. in private with kell, this mask comes off, and we get to see the extent of his insecurities and anxieties. but what i loved most about rhy was how bubbly and trusting he was -- especially with kell. he would die for kell, and kell would die for him. rhy is the reckless one who gets them into scrapes so that kell gets to live a little; kell is the one who saves them so they can live to see another day. they balance each other out perfectly. 🌟 IN CONCLUSION, READ THIS BOOK when i read a darker shade of magic, i travelled. i walked along the cobbled streets of grey london and by the red river in the middle of red london. i shivered in the dark doorways of white london. i tasted metal, and smelled roses, and saw blood. and i loved, loved the worlds and the characters and the story with everything i had. sometimes there are books you want to dive into and never leave. sometimes there are books that you come out of trembling because the story was so good that reality leaves you disoriented. sometimes there are books with magic that seeps out of their pages. this book is all of them. if there is one last book you read in your life, read this one. you will not regret it, i promise!
1532011218	Magic was a living thing—that, everyone knew—but to Kell it felt like more, like a friend, like family. It was, after all, a part of him (much more than it was a part of most) and he couldn’t help feeling like it knew what he was saying, what he was feeling, not only when he summoned it, but always, in every heartbeat and every breath. He was, after all, Antari. *This review contains spoilers.*I just finished this book and my mind is all over the place. I went into this book not knowing much about the plot except that it involved magic and that everyone seemed to love it. A lot happened in this book, I’m not even sure where to begin. A Darker Shade of Magic has amazingly complex characters (among my favorites: Prince Rhy, Lila Bard, and of course Kell) they made it impossible to put the book down. This book was so original and creative. I had to stop everything I was doing and just finish it.V.E Schwab's writing is outstanding. Kell’s relationship with his brother was incredibly heartwarming. I love close families in YA books. “Would you tell them?” asked Kell.Rhy sighed. Kell watched him try to answer several ways before he finally said, “There is nothing I would not give you.”Kell’s chest ached. “I know.”“You are my brother. My closest friend.”“I know.”Also, can we talk about Holland? When we first met Holland I thought he was going to be on Kell’s side. It seemed (to me) that underneath all the evil and pain that had gotten into his body, there was still a flicker of humanity. Unfortunately, I was wrong. I’m kind of sad that he didn’t turn out to be like I originally thought- and watching him suffer at the hands of the Dane twins was extremely painful. I felt extremely relieved when Lila and Kell killed both of the twins. “Holland knew. He’d seen the attack coming, and he hadn’t stopped it. The instant before the metal struck him from behind, Holland had stopped fighting. It was only a second, a fraction of a breath, but it had been enough to give Kell the edge, the opening. And in the sliver of time after the metal pierced his body, and before he fell, it wasn’t anger or pain that crossed his face. It was relief.”I’m glad Holland got his peace.I also loved loved loved reading from Lila’s point of view. I was anticipating the two main characters meeting right from the start- and it did not disappoint. The chemistry between Lila and Kell felt so real.“How did you know?” she asked, looking down at the rubble of the queen. “How did you know she wasn’t me?”Kell managed an exhausted smile. “Because she said please.”Lila stared at him, aghast. “Is that a joke?”Kell shrugged slightly. It took a lot of effort. “I just knew,” he said.“You just knew,” she echoed.”Need the next book now.Oh, and this song made my reading experience 10 times better (I’m still listening to it on repeat).This review and more can be found on my blog.
2650691905	2018: 5/5 2023: obviously 5/5
4533370432	“I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still”.(4.5)Honestamente, le tenía un poco de miedo a este libro, pero ¡me encantó! Superó todas mis expectativas y me dejó con muchísimas ganas de conocer más sobre los diferentes Londres, la magia de los Antari y los personajes, por supuesto. Aquí nos encontramos con Kell, uno de los últimos Antari, que son personas con la capacidad para viajar entre los diferentes mundos, en este caso, diferentes Londres (el rojo, el blanco, el gris y, en algún momento, el negro). En teoría, Kell sirve al Imperio Maresh del Londres Rojo como embajador ante los otros Londres, pero, además, como un trabajo subrepticio, también es un contrabandista que les lleva objetos de diferentes Londres a personas que están dispuestas a pagar con ellos. En medio de uno de esos encargos, algo sale mal y Kell termina escapando al Londres Gris, en donde conoce a Delilah Bard, una ladrona tremendamente hábil que primero lo roba y, más adelante, le salva la vida. Por diferentes cosas del destino, el objeto que hizo que todo saliera mal para Kell lo obliga a aliarse con Delilah y llevársela a diferentes Londres, pues juntos tendrán que intentar detener una magia oscura que busca apropiarse de todos los mundos. Los mundos que creó Victoria Schwab aquí son maravillosos y el sistema de magia que lo rige todo es súper interesante. Creo que fueron esos dos elementos los que me mantuvieron enganchada todo el libro a pesar de que, a veces, sentía que no estaba pasando mucho. Y eso es lo extraño porque, normalmente, cuando estoy leyendo un libro y siento que todo es muy pacífico, me aburro. Pero eso no sucedió con A Darker Shade of Magic. No sé si fue el estilo de escritura o que sencillamente los personajes de Kell y Delilah me cayeron tremendamente bien desde el principio, pero de verdad me involucré un montón en la historia. Y es que Kell y Delilah son precisamente el tipo de personajes que yo adoro: no son perfectos, son desvergonzados, inteligentes, leales y tienen muchos secretos que van dejando caer poco a poco. Los dos, en conjunto, son una dupla genial y amaba leer todos sus diálogos. Especialmente por el sass que tiene Delilah todo el tiempo. Más allá de eso, creo que este primer libro es una gran introducción a lo que puede llegar a ser un universo enorme, pues entiendo que, además de esta primera trilogía oficial, Victoria Schwab está trabajando en unos cómics que son precuelas de esta historia y en una nueva trilogía que iría después de esta. Y, honestamente, siento que estos libros se van a volver una obsesión para mí.
4373077720	This was truly enjoyable. I do have some complaints here and there, but nonetheless, I had fun reading this book!
941508925	DNF'd at 75%. Sadly, this just isn't holding my interest. This had a really cool concept, but the plot does nothing for me.
1031039353	"As magis," I whisper, as I turn the final page to a close. More.Alright, so ignoring the fact that I completely just butchered their language with my google translate skills there (and the lack of any actual pages to be turned with my virtual copy), can I just say what a THRILL it was reading this book?V. E. Schwab's first installment of the trilogy opens doors -quite literally- to fascinating new worlds full of magic, mystery and mayhem. While more work may yet be done in further expanding this world, there's no turning back once you've hopped along for Kell Maresh and Delilah Bard's many misadventures. From the unique take on multidimensional Londons, to Lila's unrelenting badassery; the nail-biting action sequences, to Kell's rather endearing personality (and let's not forget his legendary coat here), it all surmounts to the making of a very promising new fantasy series!But, like all books, A Darker Shade of Magic isn't free of its own set of faults here and there. It goes without saying that Miss Schwab is a superb writer, but there were moments scattered throughout the book that felt like they were dragged on a tad longer than I liked– I'm especially talking about the scenes involving all those temporary side characters here. For instance, the black magic possession scene was intriguing to behold the first time round, but I found myself skimming the parts as it kept transferring from one unfortunate victim to the other. More than that, it's the overall writing style itself that's slightly more detailed than my usual tastes, but still certainly not enough to put me off entirely– our MC's are just too damn likeable to stay away for long!Moving on, I'd like to point out a certain dubious villain that goes by the name of Holland— the moment we're given a deeper insight to this dark-haired Antari, I was hooked. There's just something about his hidden complexities and enigma that draws me in and honestly, I'm a huge sucker for misunderstood, tortured souls. (view spoiler)[Also holy hell: so we know he's quite possibly still alive AND he's got the all powerful talisman right in the palm of his hand AND he's been whisked away alone to Dead Black London... ALL SIGNS POINT TO HIS RETURN IN THE NEXT BOOK AND I AM SO READY FOR THE SHITSTORM TO COME HELL YES. Really hope we actually get to explore the workings of his mind this time rather than more evil Kell-stalking please. (hide spoiler)]Another reason this book probably wasn't as mindblowing for me as it could have been was the atmosphere: I pretty much always rely on music to help set a story's mood for me and make me feel like I'm not just witnessing it, but that I'm also a part of it— but since I mostly managed to read this on my phone in between busy outings, the experience naturally got cut down a notch or two. By the time we'd reached the climax, the tension and adrenaline rush I should've been soaring on during such crucial scenes simply felt... lacking.Nonetheless, this is a slow-burner that should appeal to anyone with an appetite for adventure. I know I talked more about Holland than Kell and Lila themselves, but trust me: these two -coupled with their incessant wit and banter- make the journey totally worth it.Even though there wasn't exactly much going on in the romance department (surprisingly so), they might just become one of my new favourite YA pairings! *squeal* On to the next one!Final rating: 3.75 stars.______________________________Book Song: Tame Impala - New Person, Same Old Mistakes______________________________["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
5590052202	2.5⭐️ no one is more surprised about this rating than i amWell, this was... I don't want to say boring but it reminds me of the one time I went to a friend's 3 hour golf game and the first 2 hours was spent tending the grass then it started raining 20 minutes into the game 😓We get it, magic can be strange and dangerous, Kell is mysterious and powerful, the royals love conniving... it felt like these points were reiterated, elaborated and nailed on over and over till I knocked my head into a wall and was like "we get it, move tf on!!!" After the first 30% when Kell encountered Lila, things started to pick up. Then it got interesting then boring then fun then less engaging.. wow this book played some games with me 😭 Oh and I don't know about y'all but I'm lowkey getting tired of FMC who get involved in missions that's none of their business that won't profit them for no reason and could 100% get them dead. I'm sorry, I just don't get it 😔
1657240710	This review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book Prescription “Some people steal to stay alive, and some steal to feel alive. Simple as that.”🌟 I have read many of Victoria’s books but I always believe in my mind that I haven’t for some reason. I guess that reason is that I haven’t finished this series yet, this has been on my TBR for more than 2 years and I finally read it and can say that I joined the fandom now.🌟 I knew this was going to be a good book as soon as I read the opening line, and that’s something that Victoria is good at. I always easily get into her books and I am a fanboy for short chapters/ fast pacing, 2 things which are usually found in this author’s books. I was intrigued by the first couple of chapters and this was hard to put down which explains why I finished it quickly.🌟 The writing is as great as ever and after reading 6 books by Schwab, I no longer question her writing abilities, I go into her books while being sure I will like them.🌟 The world building and magical system is the strongest aspect in this story so if you are a fan of those, then this book is perfect for you. I was simply fascinated by the rules and wanted more and more. The idea is simple yet very interesting!🌟 The characters were so fleshed out and my favorite till this point is Holland. Kell is great and Lila has the Inej/ Kaz vibe, if they had a daughter then she would be Lila! The twins were so cunning and evil and I am excited for the next books’ characters.🌟 The plot was good but not as good as Schwab’s other books, If you like plot-driven books then this may not be the best. Vicious and Vengeful were better at that.🌟 Summary: The story has a powerful world building and 3D characters but is a bit lacking in the plot aspect. I enjoyed it very much and I believe that it will get even better and that’s why I am giving it 4 out of 5 stars.A BR with A cool guy
1260571442	Well what can I say? It was so much better, in my humble opinion, than Vicious. Maybe it was just the fact that I didn't have to force a square into a circle in liking the characters in this book. Maybe I just love Lila's charm.This is the kind of love story I like. Gentle knives, running away from your world, being tempted by unlimited power and learning damn hard lessons. Oh wait, did I say it was a love story? No. It happens to *have* a love story that I loved, but it was so damn mild and only a hint of one that it never even whelmed the main tale.Which was AWESOME.Or perhaps I ought to say that I loved the four Londons or at least the idea of the four Londons and now I'm just sitting here wondering about all the other places not mentioned and wondering if I ought to spill some blood to see that true balance and evoke just a trickle of the magic, for, after all, we do live in the gray, do we not? By god, perhaps I really ought to say, the magic words to vacate this world and be done with it!The main characters were easy to like, and while they weren't too deep or complicated, they were very charming, nonetheless. Hell, the whole damn novel was charming as hell, and oh, yes, I Was Entertained. :)Am I a solid, full-fledged fan of Schwab's writing? I didn't think so, before, but with this, I'm afraid I've fallen over into the dark side of London.
1210787969	4.5 Stars!
1729912661	** 5+++ "BRILLIANT AND MARVELLOUS" stars ! **I actually first tried to read this book a few months back but couldn’t get into it and I now realize I was just not in the mood because I decided a couple days ago to give this another shot, and now I’m left wondering why I ever stopped reading it because THIS book right here is fantastic and I absolutely loved it !! <3 I now understand the hype about it which I think is totally legit ! Let’s first start with the brilliant world-building , shall we ? I found the concept of the different superimposed Londons as well as the diverse shades of magic to be fascinating and really smart, imaginatively and elegantly created by the author with fine details that made the whole concept actually quite realistic especially when one of the Londons is the real one set in the 19th century making it all the more real. The world Schwab developed was truly spellbinding and complex, very well thought-out, so much so that I was left wondering at some point how something so subtle and imaginative could come out of someone’s brain, it’s really amazing ! All in all, you’ll have understood that the world-building in this book was very strong and had me engrossed from the first to the last page ^_^ Rhy laughed silently. “I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.” “I apologize for shooting you in the leg,” said Lila. “I was myself entirely.” The intrigue in this first book wasn’t your usual story with full-on action scenes everywhere. The plot was slow, especially the beginning as we’re slowly introduced to the world and the way it works so that you’re not left confused very long, but the plot being slow doesn’t mean it was slow-paced, not at all. On the contrary, I found the plotline to be very fluid and fast-paced with the enchanting and beautiful writing preventing you from ever being bored. It was, exactly like the world-building, really smart and very inventive and intricate. It’s crazy really because I was hooked the whole time, even when there wasn’t a lot of action, there was still all the subtleties of the world and the great characters that had me so invested in the story as well as several action scenes and fights that were badass and full of wonderful magic. Also, I never found any of the tropes that you often have in fantasy books, the intrigue was in no way predictable and was sparse with small twists to keep you captivated the whole time. “Some people steal to stay alive, and some steal to feel alive. Simple as that.” “And which are you ?” asked Kell. “I steal for freedom,” said Lila. “I suppose that’s a bit of both.” As for the characters , well, there’s truly not one of them I didn’t love, even the bad guys ! They were all multi-layered and mature characters with diverse and complex personalities, all of them, even the good ones, having a bit of darkness and hunger for power in themselves making them imperfect but much more human and realistic. The whole time, I could feel KELL felt lonely, not knowing where he comes from and feeling like he didn’t truly belong with the Royal family from Red London, but feeling more like he was a possession than a true member of the family. He was always looking for a thrill by transgressing the rules to feel alive and like he was in control of his life. He had some darkness in him, drawn by strong and dark magic he didn’t have control over, making me feel sympathy for him. I also absolutely loved his deep relationship with RHY, you could feel how much he loved this spoiled, easy-going and lovable prince, whom he considers his brother, how he’s willing to sacrifice himself just to save Rhy. In short, I completely loved Kell <3 However, I wish we had gotten more of Kell and Rhy together to really see their connection, how deep it went, I hope we’ll get to see more of Rhy in the sequel, because I also really like his character. LILA was a wonderful female lead character ! She was quite strange and very stubborn, badass for a human without magic, never hesitating to use her knives or gun when she feels threatened. Lila was always eager to steal things and had a gift for always getting into reckless and dangerous situations, trying to convince herself she doesn’t care about her life or other people, when deep down she actually does. She doesn’t say it clearly, but I could feel she was also lonely and trying to find something worth living for. In that, Kell and Lila were a perfect match as partners, their interactions witty and smart, and sharing the same loneliness and hunger for adventure and thrills. When I read a book, I’m usually looking for a bit of romance each time (I’m a hopeless romantic), but I found I didn’t mind at all that this book didn’t have any romance at all, which just shows how much I loved everything else about it ^^. I also very much liked HOLLAND as one of the bad guys. He was actually not all dark but more like grey, because he was forced, compelled, to do things that he didn’t necessarily want to do. I can feel we’re not done with him yet, at least I hope we’re not. Kell frowned. “I’ve never met anyone like you.”He hadn’t meant it as a compliment, but Lila took it that way, flashing him a grin. “What can I say,” she said, “I’m one of a kind.”Kell managed an echo of her smile, and she gasped. “What’s that on your face ?”The smile vanished. “What ?” “Never mind,” she said, laughing. “It’s gone.” All in all, this book managed to blow my mind with its imaginative and truly marvellous world-building and its lovable and intricate characters. I’m now super excited to read the second book which seems to be ever better !!
2250397962	5 Golden Stars!98%beautiful!elegant!Fabulous!to be honest, I didn't expect to like this series, I didn't even plan to read it!but wow! I loved it!one of the few times the Hype didn't disappoint me & I'm grateful!& Schwab is one of my newly-discovered favourite Authors!The world building, all by itself, blew my mind!Parallel Londons!& their differentiation beside magic was by Colour!Parallel universe travelers + magic! my favourite auto-buy ideas to see in a story."the lost city known to all as Black LondonGrey for the magic-less city.Red, for the healthy empire.White, for the starving world."Every character was well-designed, likable, & acting believable, natural.like alwaysI fell in love with the lead character, Kell.he is so cute & vulnerable.also I want his coat!Rhy was funny & kind-hearted such a soft soul!tho I didn't care about Lila much (apparently I'm the only one.) but she was well-created & good, just not my type of favourite, she's somehow dashing & reckless. (& I really tempted to skip her chapters...)the Plot, when slowly introducing us this world(s), was full of ups & downs & more interesting facts. I loved it.Every act, dialogue, scene, description, made me more intrigued.although there was some (action descriptions) parts I didn't understand (there is always some; my Bad, I imagine my own to help myself at those times)but in general this Brilliant story was written so Elegantly.Updated: (gaining more experience in writing reviews)the Writing Style was magnificent, it engaged me emotionally, spoke deeply to my heart & soul, & I highlighted many beautiful sentences.& yes, the whole Plot was slow (or at least, medium paced? not sure, a book that I notice its slowness, is usually boring & not captivating, so my mind wanders & thinks why it's not over.... NOT the case here!) because the beauty in the writing style & how intriguing the world building was, & the interesting details that slowly revealed inside the story & raised questions in my mind, with the presence of great characters & the prospect of how they will cross paths & theeir interaction, totally made up for it. (actually it never bothered me in the first place so it must need a make-up-for-it.)it just slowed my reading pace in my 2nd read, because I wanted to savour it.my new opinions on the Action parts: I read them word for word this time around, & with more focus (I have a distracting mind especially in reading descriptions or actions. -not with Schwab I haven't anymore!) my mind was blown, it reminded me of Avatar; the last Airbender, when the earth coming up to block another elemental magic blow.-2024 reread:wow, I remember at first I rated it 4 stars (4.5)-waiting to see the rest of the books in the series- but it truly was a 5 for me. (& I rounded up soon after, also increasing the percentage) still is. & I should mention also my favourite book of the series as well.sometimes I fear to reread a book (usually the 1st time reread) & figure that I don't like my favourite story anymore...THANKFULLY, it usually never happens, if I am in the right mood for it.& it was a fun experience, forgetting many things after 6 years, so it felt like an almost 1st read at time by the surprises, the only difference was knowing the end.I also liked Lila more this time, I still have conflicts about her, but I liked her courage & her fast comebacks. she is an interesting character& their relationship might not exactly be on the top of my ships, but these two had a great chemistry & fascinating dynamics.-World building: ★★★★★/5Characters: ★★★★(★)/5Plot: ★★★★/5Written style: ★★★★/5Idea: ★★★★★/5
1100678215	buddy read with the machalos!!hopefully my experience with these books will mirror my experience with leah bardugo's grisha trilogy, where i was all excited to read a series that everyone ♥loves♥, only to feel perplexed with 'why don't i like this more?' after reading the first book, but to THEN go on to read and love the next two books with a great sense of relief and safety in numbers.the synopsis of the second book certainly sounds like it will be more exciting than this.don't get me wrong - this isn't bad - it just felt more like one book-long establishing shot until the end when, admittedly, it got pretty cool. i like the characters here, the world is interesting and has potential for unusual story developments and schwab's already pulled a couple of moves i appreciate in terms of both their novelty and her disinclination to pander to romance seekers or sentimental readers who want every 'good' character to make it through alive. but the first 3/4 was just really ... flat to me. it seems like it was all set-up for the series with a fine late-stage payoff but not fine enough to make this book a favorite. however, i am quite taken with lila; terrestrial thief, aspiring pirate and general badass, who comes across as earnestly sweet instead of cheesy when she utters lines like:"I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still."or:"I'm not going to die," she said. "Not till I've seen it.""Seen what?"Her smile widened. "Everything."and once she gets her fancy new gear? yeah, i'm on board for wherever she goes stomping off to next. kell is a more typical character, personality-wise, so he will take some time to grow on me, but the specifics of his life, upbringing, and abilities are intriguing enough for me to get my hopes up that A Gathering of Shadows is going to be the one that makes my heart sing. bring it on!come to my blog!
1927345223	I AM IN LOVE. New favorite. 100/5
1867921639	First re-read 9/8/18: Honestly, I have nothing else to say other than this is my all-time favorite series, right after Harry Potter. For me, nothing will touch Harry Potter because of nostalgia and how it makes me feel. But in my adult life, this has been my favorite series. If you have not read it, and you like fantasy... you need to. Now.Original review 2/3/17:Holy moly. I finished this book over my lunch break at work and I just cannot. I don't want to go back to real life, I want to stay in Red London :(This is the easiest five star rating I have given out in the past couple months. This book is incredible!!!! It lured me in right away. I remember distinctly the night I started reading it. After an hour or so of reading, my husband came home from work and I literally didn't let him let a word in, I just wanted to tell him all about this book!!! In reality, I probably shouldn't have told him so much, because you bet your buttons, I'm going to have him read it. I love Kell as our main character. LOVE how flawed he is, and his COAT. OMG. His coat. I adore Lila as a secondary character, she is so fierce and loyal. RHY. Be still my heart. I'll even throw Holland into the mix, somehow I liked him as well! V.E. Schwab's writing is completely enchanting. So much talent. I want to read everything she has written now! I can't recommend this book enough! Read it. Now!! :)
1354651418	ok!!!!! nice!!!!!!this book is great because it has one of those plots that's infuriating and makes you go NOOOOOOOO throughout the entire book and i wanted to pull my hair out and scream because i was so invested in the well-being of all the characters.i love kell. i love kell so much. eeeep.my only complaint about this book is that since it's the first book in a series, there is quite a bit of worldbuilding and lengthy chapters explaining the world--which is necessary because it's complex, but took us out of the action for a while. i know the rest of the books in this series will be five stars, though, and i can't wait to read them!
2584839887	➽ 2021 reads: book 3/75okay, time to get started. this book and series has potential for me. POTENTIAL. but i honestly can't really see why so many people adore it so much. maybe it's because i haven't read the rest of the series yet or maybe it's because it's v.e. schwab. i have nothing against miss schwab, i personally adored vicious and this savage song, i couldn't quite believe that the former was written before this one. i honestly don't know. three stars is quite generous in terms of what i thought about it so let's just get straight to unpacking this adult fantasy, which doesn't really read like an adult fantasy.i thought the pacing and structure of this novel was incredibly strange. there was tons of world building at the start, which makes sense for the first book in the series, but it made it incredibly slow to start. i have seen authors, including schwab herself, interweave the world-building with the introduction of characters and plot itself in a far more effortless manner. it just felt like a lot of information was dumped on the reader at once, without much elegance. nothing much really happened for the first 200 pages, which was over half of the novel, or if there was something happening, i was only half invested in the story. and then all of a sudden so much was happening and i found it difficult to keep up. by the end of the novel, i still don't even know our antagonist's motivations or why they were so power hungry and evil which made me wonder what we were doing in those first 200 pages in the first place. maybe with a little more action and less heavy-handed explaining in the first two thirds of the story, this issue could have been rectified.i think our author cared about our main players, kell and lila, so much that other character's fell wayside. by the end of the book i knew exactly who kell and lila were and what our author wanted us to think of them, but i knew next to nothing about holland, rhy, astrid, etc. both holland and rhy intrigued me, and i loved rhy's playful nature and witty banter, but neither character's were developed enough for me to actually really give a shit about, and that was unfortunate because like most of this book, i thought they had potential. i do intend to read the rest of the series so i do really hope we learn more about these lesser players.kell was probably my favourite character because he was the most developed. i would love to learn more backstory about him, which i imagine we'll get more of in book two and three. but i completely understood his motivations, his flaws, and the way he operated. lila on the other hand left something to be desired. i really loved her quick wit and her confidence. i thought the scene where she was introduced and we learn of her desires to be a pirate and go on a grand adventure were really sweet and enjoyable. however, i felt there was a lot of heavy-handed telling and not much showing. kell constantly described her as a 'cutthroat' but we didn't see many throats being slit at lila's hand. in fact, most of the conflict we saw her in, she was being beat, or needed kell to come to the rescue. she also constantly talked about how she wanted to see her enemies suffer, and she liked the power that came with killing people, although we didn't see much of her ruthless nature, just her pickpocketing a few thugs. i just felt like it undermined her as a character, and it would have been more interesting if the author wasn't constantly telling us how badass she was. i hope we see more vulnerability from lila in the next books because she started off so strong.i'm also not sure if there needed to be chemistry between kell and lila? because i found none. i don't really know why they were drawn to each other, except simply for their circumstance with the stone. if this becomes a relationship i would need to see A LOT of development from miss schwab. i honestly buy lila and rhy getting together a lot more? or even rhy and kell? rhy honestly had the most chemistry with anyone and he was criminally underused. there were a few great moments of dialogue between these three characters, but not much tenderness (maybe with the exception of kell and rhy in the final act).the writing style left a lot to be desired as well actually. i've adored v.e. schwab's writing before so it's safe to say i was greatly disappointed. i went into this book imagining it to be a dense, complex, and rich adult fantasy, but i felt the actual prose to be incredibly simple. to be honest, it read like a YA novel, which definitely isn't a bad thing, but just not what i expected from a book that people so often say is adult. i also had no idea until i literally read other reviews that this book was intended to be set in the 1800s. the characters didn't speak that way at all and i think schwab could have taken greater pains to give us that imagery and setting. this is going to sound SO harsh but i felt like so many sentences were written with the intention of being put on a bookmark or booksleeve, that the writing just lost a bit of the magic for me. it just didn't feel genuine in my opinion.okay i know i went absolutely in on this book but there were some aspects that i liked. kell as a character was intriguing, and the magic system is one that i can definitely see myself remembering and wanting to read more of. i've heard that the series gets better so i do intend to carry on. but regardless, stan rhy.youtube ❀ twitter ❀ instagram
2333965998	4, yer a wizard Harry stars!!!! Full review and a recipe for The Stone's Throw Fish & Chips featured on my blog Recipe & a ReadKell is an Antari – a rare form of magician with the ability to not only wield all elements but to travel between parallel worlds (read: parallel Londons). There are three main players in this multi-verse and those are: Red, White and Grey. Once upon a time there was Black London, but it was lost to decay, time and legend… or was it? Gray for the magic-less city.Red, for the healthy empire.White, for the starving world.The world building here is epic – Schwab wasn’t just building one fantastical world but four. One of my favorite aspects of the entire fantasy genre is the world building. I’m left in awe of the imagination of these authors and it leaves me speechless at their ability to paint such vivid imagery of things I’ve never even seen a semblance of. Kell travels between Londons for diplomatic purposes and to keep the peace between these worlds. He’s one of two Antari left with the ability to do so. The other is Holland of White London. These worlds are dangerous, gritty and brutal and still Kell picks up a side habit of smuggling trinkets between Londons (for which he could be tried for high-treason if caught). He's an incredibly charming MC and you can't help but root for him.Things really get cooking when Kell (the softie) agrees to smuggle an unknown item through the worlds as a favor to an ailing woman. It isn’t until he has brought this artifact through the veil between worlds that he realizes it was a trap. Not only a trap, but a con to have him bring a dangerous piece of magic from the lost Black London into his beloved home. This magic is cruel and cunning, it’s infectious and deceitful. This magic almost becomes a secondary character and it added an intoxicating suspense that drives the second half of the book. Enter: Delilah ‘Lila’ Baird. She’s a cutthroat pickpocket, she’s spunky, sassy and full of gumption. As the saves Kell’s life she unknowingly thrusts herself onto a path that will take them both on an incredible journey through parallel worlds, trials and triumphs neither had anticipated.I’d rather die on an adventure than live standing still.This is the first in the serious so it’s par for the course that this novel laid a lot of groundwork. While on the whole it’s an entertaining, fast moving and genuinely fun read I was left hoping for a bit more from the climax of this story. The complexity that goes into building not just one world but four is evident not only in the detail but in what it lacks as well. The development here went into the world versus the characters and I was left wishing for a bit more back-story and understanding of many characters but most notably, Kell. I think this will be delivered in future books but I would’ve loved for this to not have been contingent on another installment. “I’m not going to die,” she said. “Not till I’ve seen it.”“Seen what?”Her smiled widened. “Everything.”All in all, I quite enjoyed this book and already have an inquiry into my local library for the second installment. It was well-paced, complex, incredibly unique and kept me guessing the entire time. While I did hope for a bit more from the first of this series, I was not left disappointed in the least. The prose were whimsical and magical but still grounded in what felt like reality and that is a feat difficult to accomplish in a fantasy novel.
1741846675	Ok. First things first... I have a pretty bad memory (just ask my wife), so factual errors ahead.(Come on grey matter, don't fail me now!)I loved this book. V.E. Schwab, if you happen to read this, you're an amazing author and I apologize for the travesty that is my review.So why, you might ask, is "A Darker Shade of Magic" on my list of "must read" books? In case you're as dense as a brick of gold bullion and haven't figured it out from the title, it's a magical world. Well, technically, 4 magical worlds that are bound together and not completely symbiotic. I don't want to spoil anything, but that has a lot to do with the plot. Oh yea, it's totally British too. Not so much with the tea and biscuits, but it's all based in fantasy version of 4 Londons. Grey London, Red London, White London and Black London. There's Dull London, Kell London, Creepy London, and Dead London Creepy London is an understatement. It's a damn blood bath over there...You know, I can't do this review without mentioning the Characters. There's 3 I'd like to note.First is Kell. Holy crap, what a bad ass. "Yea, I do magic and walk between worlds... whatcha gonna do about it? Oh, my jacket? Yea, it's about as bad ass as I am. No, you can't have it."Kell is the adopted Prince of Red London. That's one of the 4 worlds linked together... try to keep up. He's got abilities that allow him to control stuff and do cool things, like traverse the worlds and control ... stuff...The way Schwab writes Kell is so relatable. He does right and is compassionate, but sometimes that just leads to some small problems. Nothing major of course, a coin for a king, a letter for a friend, the Magical Apocalypse, ya know, the little things that don't really matter... the things that bring him to meet ...Delilah Bard, or better known as Lila, is a tomboy thief who finds herself at the right place at the right time every time... about 20% of the time. This girl likes to stick to the shadows but she's not afraid to brandish a weapon either. Lila is feisty. She's fun but cautious at the same time. Like most people at some point in their lives, she feels stuck. She just wants something to change, to get away, to do something that matters. Holy shit, did she get what she wanted...............Which brings us to the third person I wanted to mention... Holland. Another badass magician ... from another world. There's only 2 of these sorcerers of great cosmic power, and of course, they don't always see eye to eye.In fact ... they pretty much hate each other. There are reasons for the hatred though, which I won't spoil, but it's pretty bad ass. Holland is older than Kell, comes from a different London where there's never truly peace and magic is coveted, and it's not unusual to have the throne change hands a few times every decade. It's carnage and chaos for Holland's world, so it fits for him to be a little... odd?Ok, review over... go read it. It's amazing. I know I left a ton out and tried to not spoil anything for those of you who probably live under a rock...What are you still doing here?Seriously. Go away.STAHP.You made it this far... how about a little further...
1462662998	DROP WHATEVER YOU ARE READING AND READ THIS SERIES IF YOU HAVEN'T ALREADYLike, for the love of everything good in the world, this book is perfection. There is no other word for it. It is PURE PERFECTION.So let me give you a little background.There are four Londons01. Grey London (non-magical London)02. Red London (magical and balanced London)03. White London (corrupted, magical London)04. Black London (over-come-by-magic London)There are two people capable of going between the Londons (Antari): Kell Maresh and Holland. Kell works for the Red-London's family, including the ever beloved like-a-brother Rhy Maresh and their parents Maxim Maresh and Emira Maresh. Holland works for the cruel brother and sister co-ruling White London Astrid Dane and Athos Dane.So imagine that the worlds are a book. In order to get to page 04, you have to go through page 01, 02, and 03. So when Kell comes across something that shouldn't even exist and he has to try and put it back where it came from, he has to go through different worlds to get to the one he needs.Simple, right?You would think if you aren't wanted in one, hunted in another, trying to save one, and dreading the other. No to mention the people that have their own agendas trying to use Kell in the process.Which brings us to our starring lady Delilah Bard, a petty theft who is looking for adventure and comfort. She just wants to be a pirate, just like everyone else in the world (don't even deny it). And she is so unbelievably witty and smarter than she is given credit for. When she runs into Kell (quite literally), her life is ever changed from the moment she challenged him. Their adventure that goes down is literally so intense that you don't even realize it happens in like... a day? Like seriously, they mentioned it towards the end how much time has passed and I was like YOU have to be joking.Narrator: Steven Crossley★ ★ ★ ★ ★This guy, right here, will literally take you into the world and make you forget everything else that is going on. The tone of his voice just draws you in and keeps you there. He isn't afraid of doing different voices for different characters, which is super nice, and his voice is kind of magical in itself so it just fits? I'm just saying.Bottom line, you get a lot of different types of magic, different worlds, traveling, death, pirates, cross-dressing, princes and princesses, and treachery. It's literally anything you'd ever want. And the best part is that V.E. Schwab, pseudonym for Victoria Schwab, writes as if she is aiming for adults which is super refreshing from some of the corny young-adult reading I have read lately.In conclusion... just read this book and then tell me what you think because I want to nerd out about this so badly with anyone and everyone.
1305000667	4.5"The people in the street looked at him and moved away, out of reach, as if whatever was eating him was contagious. Which, of course, it was. Magic was a truly beautiful disease."Victoria Schwab's writing reminds me of my beloved XIX and XX centuries classics. It reminds me of the pleasure we seek and can find in a tale shaped according to the rules of the art of storytelling. It reminds me that reading is an act not performed by the eyes only, but by heart and mind as well. It reminds me of something Flaubert said in his Madame Bovary, claiming that «Human speech is like a cracked kettle on which we tap crude rhythms for bears to dance to, while we long to make music that will melt the stars», statement which I second -because no thing such absolute perfection exists where language is involved- and of which I am particularly fond -because of all the exceptions it allows me to see.Victoria Schwab is one of the exceptions.She makes music, not with maths and notes, but with the ordinary 26 letters we all know, and that's miracle and magic in equal parts. She melts the stars because even them, like the bears and the mountains too, have danced themselves to dust listening to the tales she uncoils.But now, stop speaking nonsense.•The plot of this book is near perfection. Its skeleton is that of every story, of course, initial situation, complication, etc., but Schwab manages to make it seem like something utterly new and previously unknown. I think this is due to her decision to linger on the initial situation, delaying the occurrence of the conflict, and then to let the story fall to its conclusion certainly at a faster pace, not hurriedly at all, but rather very naturally, as if simply drawn towards the centre of gravity of any and every story, its conclusion. And (it may seem odd to you that I feel the need to specify this, but I need it all the same, because the difference is substantial) here I'm not referring to the force of gravity, but to the gravity of the general relativity, the one that is implicit in the curvature of the spacetime. Do you get the difference? A Darker Shade of Magic's plot is not pulled by anything; it just follows its natural course, like a river. And that's what makes it a piece of art.•The world-building is another proof of the genius of this author, because it's simple and adequately rich at once. The concept of the four Londons is not nearly as confusing as I thought, and everything is magnificently explained. While reading, I have the -I admit, rather annoying even for myself- tendency to look out for inconsistencies, plot-holes, oversights and so on, and in this book I found none. Usually there is always a thing or two, however insignificant, that make me stop and ponder a bit more than what should, but here it never happened. This world-building is simply bullet-proof.•The characters, well, why should I repeat myself? Dangerously close to perfection. And seeing how, for how I see things, nothing is absolutely perfect, this means that they are perfect.Kell is just as mysterious as he must be, without useless exaggeration, while Lila struck me because of the blend of innocence and badassery that her personality is. Dreams are her essence what keeps her spirit alive, but she's known nothing but violence for her entire life, so she made of herself what she needed to be in order to get by in the streets. This, although, didn't kill her dreams. You know what this means? Characterization score: gogoolplex squared (yeah, I'll mention this number in every single one of my review. Sorry not sorry).• As to the writing, you probably have gleaned from my introduction that I utterly adored it. I am speechless. That's it. The only way for you to grasp how gorgeously Victoria Schwab writes is to try it yourself.But speaking of the introduction, I realize just now that A Darker Shade of Magic reminded me of one thing more, maybe the most important of them all.It reminded me, at last, that magic exists, and it moulds the world(s).
1960342275	Why do my reviews sometimes just vanish my god goodreads get it together. I don't even remember what I wrote but I'm sure I said how much I liked the book and the writing and that Lila is the love of my life even though it was annoying when (view spoiler)[ she held Kell hostage there for a moment (hide spoiler)]. I liked the second one more though but I would totally recommend this book to people who like fantasy series but ignore the hype around it because the hype ruins it no matter how good the book is.
4701334549	I'm so glad I chose this as my first read of the year!! 🤩🤩 I had high expectations after seeing so much hype, and A Darker Shade of Magic definitely lived up to them! It was such a magical, immersive read 🥰🥰“I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still.”A Darker Shade of Magic follows Kell, one of the last travellers- magicians who can travel between parallel universes connected by one magical city. There's 3 different versions of London- Grey London, without magic; Red London, where magic is revered; and White London, where people fight to control the remaining magic and magic fights back. And once there was Black London.... “A life worth having is a life worth taking.”This was such a magical, entertaining read!! It started off a bit slow, but once it got to the good parts, I began enjoying it sm. There's honestly so much to love about this story!! 😍😍Starting with the characters. I really loved the characters!! 😃 The story focuses mostly on Kell and Lila, a thief fighting to survive in Grey London, as well as having tons of side characters. I honestly think that all the characters were done really well!! Kell was a very likeable main character who I found easy to root for and I loved Lila's fierceness and determination. They were also great as a duo!! Even tho he was only a side character, I was also a big fan of Rhy- he was giving major Jesper vibes. So, yeah, the characters were really well done! 🤩🤩Next, the writing. Ugh I loved the writing!! It was simply STUNNING 😩😩❤❤ I loved the descriptions of all the different Londons, and it was so atmospheric! It just had this amazing flow to it which made it so enjoyable to read. I would say that the writing did take me a little while to get used to, but once I was used to it, I loved it!! 😍😍The plot was also really great!! I honestly went into this with no idea what the plot would be, and that actually made me enjoy it even more! It took some really surprising twists that I wasn't expecting and I loved going on a journey alongside Kell and Lila. It was very action-packed and fast-paced, which I appreciated! Literally no complaints 😁“I'm not going to die," she said. "Not till I've seen it.""Seen what?"Her smile widened. "Everything.”Overall, this was such a great read!! 🥰🥰 I would definitely recommend if you're looking for:✔️ Very atmospheric and descriptive writing✔️ Action-packed plot✔️ Original magic system✔️ Well-developed charactersI'm so excited to continue reading this series and read more of V.E. Schwab's books in the coming year!!! 🎉🎉~ 4.5 stars~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~My first read of 2023, and I really enjoyed it!!! 🤩🤩 Believe the hype, bc this was so good 😩😩❤❤RTC!
2655848057	“The bodies in my floor all trusted someone. Now I walk on them to tea.” Step 1: Dump my heart, my tears, and my feelings into a blender.Step 2: Hit the liquify button and wait two minutes.Step 3: Remove the lid and empty the remaining product into the trash.And VOILA! There you have my remains by the end of this book. I'm completely awestruck by the brilliance of Schwab’s intricate worldbuilding, unique magic system, and wonderfully well developed characters. Re-reading this novel only reinforced how strong of a writer I know her to be (and why I love A Darker Shade of Magic so much)! ~★~ What is this book about? ~★~ Kell Maresh is as close to magic as a one can be. Born an Antari—a magic wielder distinguishable by his singular black eye—Kell is able to cross through doors to alternate worlds. Adopted by the royal family, Kell finds himself a messenger of sorts between White, Grey, and Red London. While delivering letters, he’s taken up a habit of also smuggling tokens back home. When a banished object from Black London (a world destroyed by magic) ends up in his hands, Kell finds the wrath of several power hungry tyrants on his shoulders. Things take a turn when an aspiring pirate and wanted thief become Kell’s only companion in his quest to prevent the dangerous artifact from landing in the wrong hands. ~★~ Characters ~★~ Kell MareshThe Magician.“But the thing about people, Kell had discovered, is that they didn't really want to know. They thought they did, but knowing only made them miserable.”It’s incredible, the bounds of my love for this character. The ethereal presence of Kell’s magic balances perfectly with his humanity, which is something some fantasy authors have a really difficult time mastering. Kell’s fear becomes my fear, his hurt becomes my hurt, and his love for his brother overwhelms me with love for the both of them. Kell is without a doubt a protagonist to be treasured.Delilah BardThe Thief.“Looking for trouble, he’d say. You’re gonna look till you find it.Trouble is the looker, she’d answer. It keeps looking till it finds you. Might as well find it first."Delilah Bard is basically the epitome of badassery, with an added layer of impulsive + recklessness. With no family, friends or money, Lila lives for herself and no one else. Taking to the streets for her means dressing as a man and pickpocketing the rich in attempt at snagging a prize. Her dream is to become a pirate and sail the waters in a life of adventure, which⁠—in theory⁠—sounds like a character I'm bound to love. Some of her decisions got on my nerves.... however I can't deny she saved Kell's life like, three times (if that doesn't warrant a pass, I don't know what does). Also, her budding romance with a certain someone is SO cute, I grinned like a fool both time they kissed for 'luck' (view spoiler)[I'm looking at you, Kell. (hide spoiler)] Rhy MareshThe Prince.“What’s he like? The prince.”“Rhy?” Kell ran a hand through his hair. “He’s…charming and spoiled, generous and fickle and hedonistic. He would flirt with a nicely upholstered chair, and he never takes anything seriously.”Rhy, the ever graceful prince and selfless brother--his scenes are bound to have me either smiling or in tears. Rhy’s relationship with Kell ruins me to no end; their deep rooted trust in each other paired with their unbreakable sibling bond is something I love to read about. Rhy has had my heart from the moment I first read the Shades of Magic trilogy, and my love for him only grows as the series progresses.Holland VosijkThe Bound.“He suffered,” added Athos softly. “But not like you.” He brought his mouth closer. “No one suffers as beautifully as you.” There isn’t enough recognition for Holland’s character amidst Shades of Magic readers, which is a shame considering he is one of the most complex in the series. Holland, the only other remaining Antari besides our lovely Kell; Holland, bound and enslaved to do White London’s bidding. I was so incredibly intrigued by his persona, especially knowing there might be a soft heart beneath his hardened exterior. Creating a multi-faceted and enticing character like Holland is no easy feat, and Schwab pulls it off like no other. His character encompasses something so painfully beautiful, its hard no to love him even before . ~★~Re-reading A Darker Shade of Magic ultimately made me realize how top tier V.E. Schwab’s writing is. I was taken by everything about this book, and know the rest of the series has even more punches in store. This is an adventure of a trilogy that I would recommend to all.
1510587240	Sale Alert: Kindle daily deal 5Aug21 $4.994.25 Magical Mayhem Stars Buddy read of the year with my friends at Buddies Books & Baubles Historical Urban Fantasy isn’t something I find very often but I usually enjoy it when I do. Most people are going to like Kell. And why wouldn’t you? He is a little bit naughty, magical, broody, angsty and tradgic with a lost past. Plus he has a fantastic coat that is actually 5 different coats in one that is added to the magical book items I’d love to have. And I do like Kell quite a bit but Lila was the character that called to me the most in this. She is snarky, deceptive, innovative, bold, uncouth, impetuous, brave and wants to be a pirate when she grows up. What was not to love? Lila wondered, not for the first time, if something was wrong with her. Barron used to say so, but Barron was a bore. Looking for trouble, he’d say. You’re gonna look till you find it. Trouble is the looker, she’d answer. It keeps looking till it finds you. Might as well find it first. This is set in a slightly different world I like to think of as a sandwich. Layer one: Grey London ( no magic at all) Lila lives hereLayer two: Red London (Beautiful Red Powerful Magic) Kell lives here and this London is practically perfect in every wayLayer three: White London (Creepy Weird Magic) Something is really amiss in this violent decaying placeLayer four: Black London (Evil Magic Rules Here) Actually this place is so overrun with magic that it has be shut off and blocked from the rest of the London’s so it’s magic doesn’t leak through.Kell is a rare breed of magic user that can travel between all the Londons. Usually he is a messenger for Royalty between the Londons but that is about to change when a piece of Black London ends up in his hands and it could be the thing that might open up the doors and let the magic of Black London through if he can’t find a way to get it back. This ended up being a really fast read for me. The set up takes a minute but once Kell and Lila meet we were off to the races and I couldn’t read it fast enough. They have this great chemistry together on the page and no it isn’t what you are thinking there is not really even much of a romance going on between them they are just so different and so they play off one another very well. . “What are you?” she asked. “A monster,” said Kell hoarsely. “You’d better let me go.” The girl gave a small, mocking laugh. “Monsters don’t faint in the presence of ladies.” “Ladies don’t dress like men and pick pockets,” retorted Kell. Her smile only sharpened. “What are you really?” “Tied to your bed,” said Kell matter- of- factly. “And?” His brow furrowed. “And in trouble.” Lila really made this story for me. I loved the character that she was just finding out about magic in the world and instead of being reluctant she is ready to jump into this new word doing a cannonball and create as big of a splash as possible.The piece of magic from Black London was really intriguing and I liked seeing how it was different than the magic Kell knew how use. I really wanted to get a look inside of Black London to see if it was really as bad as they suspect. When doors ran between your world and mine, and others, and anyone with a bit of power could pass through. Magic itself could pass through. But the thing about magic,” added Kell, “is that it preys on the strong- minded and the weak- willed, and one of the worlds couldn’t stop itself. The people fed on the magic and the magic fed on them until it ate their bodies and their minds and then their souls.” All and all I really liked this book. Kell is an interesting character and I liked the little hints given for the direction that his story is might go. His past is a mystery but he was raised by the king and queen so one has to wonder if they are part of the cause of his past being a mystery or if they adopted him since his magic would be a valuable tool. Lila’s potential is just as great. For someone that comes from a world with no magic it will be interesting to see what she can do in worlds with it and how much more trouble she can get into. Rys is Kell’s brother the Prince. They are close and I love the bond between them. Rys got to be the playboy in this book but I wonder if he will get a larger role in the continuation of the series after what happened in this one. I think that man would flirt with a plant if he thought it would sit up and take notice. “You are surely not an intrusion,” he said, pushing himself up in the bed. “Though I fear you’ve met me rather out of my usual state of grace. Do you have a name?” Delilah Bard,” she said. “We’ve met before. And you looked worse.”Rhy laughed silently. “I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.”“I apologize for shooting you in the leg,” said Lila. “I was myself entirely.” Overall: If you are a fan of UF and 19th century London then this could be just what you were looking for.
3445637833	✅ Characters✅ Writing✅ world-building✅ Plot✅ Pace / Action ✅ Atmosphere and descriptions 4.5 starsI apologize in advance for the long review (or not, I’m not really sorry about it).Oh well… I fell in love with V.E. Schwab’s writing in The Invisible Life of Addie Larue, and I promised myself that I would read her other series, and right now, my only regret is not reading her books earlier. OMG, this book was a delight to read, and I am so happy that I already bought the whole series so I can start the second book right away. Grey for the magic-less city. Red, for the healthy empire. White, for the starving world. The most interesting aspect of this book is, without a doubt, the world-building. The different worlds are neighbors to each other, but impossible to access except for a few people with a special magic, the Antaris. It’s genius. I said it before, and I will say it again, Schwab’s writing is a work of art. It’s just gorgeous and so vivid, eloquent, gripping, and atmospheric, you could really feel the different vibe of each London. “You don’t know anything about these worlds,” he said, but the fight was bleeding out of his voice. “Sure I do,” countered Lila cheerfully. “There’s Dull London, Kell London, Creepy London, and Dead London,” she recited, ticking them off on her fingers. “See? I’m a fast learner.” I love the characters in this book SO MUCH. Kell is perfect, Lila is perfect, Holland is perfect in his own complex and tortured way, and I need more of Rhy’s shameless flirt and funny side. I fell in love with them (well, most of them, sadly we don't see much of Rhy, but I still like him quite a lot) when they were introduced at the beginning of the story, but when they started to interact together? Perfection. 👌Kell is just… well he’s Kell. I have a thing for dark and mysterious characters, but I also have a thing for redhead snarky and resilient characters (#Lucien #ACOTAR #MyBaby). He is awesome, I love everything about him, his recklessness, his magic coat, I love all of him. “I’d rather die on an adventure than live standing still.” Lila is a great character that most certainly can take care of herself. She has her dreams and aspirations and does not fear death. She can be a pain in the ass, but she is also fierce and loyal to those who deserve it. She has been wishing for adventures all her life and jumped on the occasion when she learned about Kell’s special abilities that allowed him to travel to a completely different world. “What are you?” she asked. “A monster,” said Kell hoarsely. “You’d better let me go.” The girl gave a small, mocking laugh. “Monsters don’t faint in the presence of ladies.” “Ladies don’t dress like men and pick pockets,” retorted Kell. Her smile only sharpened. “What are you really?” “Tied to your bed,” said Kell matter-of-factly. “And?” His brow furrowed. “And in trouble.” Can we talk about Kell and Lila’s meeting for a second? He was running for his life, she bumped into him and robbed him, he magically tracked her down and followed her, she knocked him out and tied him to her bed, only for him to wake up, burn the ropes, and threaten her. Let’s also not forget the part where she created a magical clone of him and had him slowly undress for her own pleasure. That meeting was one of the funniest meetings ever. We must go out, you see, because we’re on a mission.”“Oh?” asked Kell.“Yes. Because unless you plan to wed me yourself—and don’t get me wrong, I think we’d make a dashing pair—I must try and find a mate.” Rhy laughed silently. "I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.""I apologize for shooting you in the leg," said Lila. "I was myself entirely."Rhy broke into his perfect smile."I like this one," he said to Kell. "Can I borrow her?" Rhy is the shameless flirt who’s been known to entertain men and women and is not shy about it. He is restless and too trusting by far according to Kell, but I just love his relationship with Kell, and I am eager to see how his relationship with Lila will develop. I am not hoping for romance at all, but her snarkiness with his shameless and carefree temper is bound to be interesting. "Holland’s two-toned eyes held Athos’s, the green and the black both steady, unblinking. “He suffered,” added Athos softly. “But not like you.” He brought his mouth closer. “No one suffers as beautifully as you.”There it was, in the corner of Holland’s mouth, the crease of his eye. Anger. Pain. Defiance. Athos smiled, victorious. Last, but surely not least, there is my poor Holland, I definitely want more of him. Being one of the only Antari still living, he has become the “puppet” of the twins ruling over White London. Even though he is depicted as the “bad guy”, I hurt for him, I pity him, and I want to hug him. He is clearly a misunderstood man, who also happens to be quite dashing (in my head he is, and so is Kell). The characters are complex and we can see their depth and different layers as the story progresses, but how I wish that we had more backstory about them. I want to know who Kell was before, and I would ha LOVE more backstory for Holland. He is a mysterious and kinda dark character, but you can see that he is not inherently evil or bad. I want to know what is happening in his poor tortured mind, I really have a thing for tortured and morally grey characters.The pace is not really fast, but at the same time many things happen and it’s just addicting. I can’t really explain it, but honestly, once I started this book, I just couldn’t stop. It was always “one last chapter” and before I knew it, I was done (at least I have two more books to read in this series). The focus is not on the romance, there is no real romance in this book actually, it really is all about the world-building, the characters, and the plot that I assume will only become more complex as the story moves forward. Bad magic, Kell had called it. No, thought Lila now. Clever magic. And clever was more dangerous than bad any day of the week. I am just going to end this review with these amazing and gorgeous artworks by Charlie Bowater, Gabriella Bujdoso, Caitlyn Patten, Alexiel April, and Victoria Ying. I would have probably read the book without knowing anything about it just because of all the gorgeous fanarts about this series.Follow me on Instagram 🙂
3283609632	Buddy read [ where i totally went ahead oops with : Rania , Alex and An “I'd rather die on an adventure than live standing still.” Hii, so yess krizzie finally joined the hype train and continues her journey too ve schwab her books with A darker Shade of magic the first book in the shades of magic triology by miss Ve. Schwab. An adult urban fantasy ish fantasy triology. Overall i definitly enjoyed this book a lot. It did took me some time too warm up too the charracters and story as the begining of this story started slow and took a little while too get too the plot and action , But once it did i really enjoyed myself while reading this one. I especially love the dynamic between the two main charracters and their banter , getting too know them more and the magic system + plot once it got there. This was just a fun read. I definitly reccomend this book for people who want a fantasy book that isnt typical Young adult and a little more '' Mature '' and is fun with a unique worldbuilding. plot , summary - The book follows two main charracters and they both have their own pov which i always love double pov female/male. It follows Kell , Kell is a blood Magican who can travel between the 4 different worlds in this fantasy world which are all a different kinda london. He is one of the two people who can do that. And we follow female charracter Lila who is a thief in Grey london [ the london without magic ] in the story one day their paths cross and together they team up and things happen as black magic spreads itself trough the worlds. Thats basically what i will say about the plot lol. i suck at summarizing things but anyway. As i mentioned at the begining the plot was slower and it took a while for the main charracter too interact and the plot too truly start but once it did i really enjoyed the plot especially because of the great dynamic between the two main charracters. they had me laughing outloud somany times and krizzie likes too laugh so good sign. Worldbuilding / fantasy elements - The worldbuilding in this book consist of 4 different londons that have the same structure but are all different kinda like paralel universes. We have Grey london which is the london without magic , Red London which is a london with magic where Kell is from magic comes from a red river in the city , White London is a london that is at war against itself because magic is poisoning the london , nothing has colours here in this London and we have Black London which we dont visit * sobbing * i need too visit which is a lost city and people can ttravel their as magic took this london over. I love this idea of the 4 different places and how the main charracter can use blood magic too travel between them. I loved visiting the different londons and learning more about the magic. Its definitly unique i just need more of black london and its darkness. Charracters and their dynamics - It took me a little while too warm up with the charracters but what i mainly enjoyed is their dynamic they have together. Its so damn funny and they just fit. I love their constant discussions but also how they seem too inspire eachother. this duo is just great. As individuals i feel like we still have to get too know them more and i need more but did enjoy both charracters especially Lila with her sassyness and will for adventure and life. But kell is intresting too. I also enjoyed the side charracters and i want more holland. he seems morally grey. “I apologize for anything I might have done. I was not myself.”“I apologize for shooting you in the leg.” said Lila. “I was myself entirely.” this scene had me choking on my drink lmao. reasons too love Lila. writing The writing is as in her other books pretty , it doesnt have a lot of annoying info dump or annoying things it was just fine for me. Overall i did enjoyed this book once it picked up and the unique worldbuilding + dynamic of the charracters the most. I do still feel like i need more of the charracters but i really enjoyed myself reading this one and reccomend if you want a fantasy with a unique cool magic system and charracters with a good dynamic and a fun book. i do feel i need a little more of everything but i see potential 😏
3163515426	i am so normal about holland, you will never meet a man who is more normal about holland, you wouldn’t believe how normal about him i am
913913309	Did I enjoy this book? Victoria Schwab did it again! She blew our brains out with her awesomeness! Here’s the thing, I’ve read and absolutely loved The Archived, but for some reason Vicious was kind of meh for me (click if you want to read my reviews). So I didn’t really know what to expect with this one. On one hand, I had high expectations because pretty much all my friends loved it, but on the other hand everyone also loved Vicious so… This book did not disappoint at all. It combines some elements that make it seem like it shouldn’t work, but it does! If you are considering picking this book up. Here’s what to expect: ➨This book is told in third person, which made it a little hard for me to connect with the characters until halfway through the book. Once I got passed that, I was ready to get matching tattoos with them (if you know what I mean). ➨Little to no romance. It is so refreshing to read a book that doesn’t focus a lot on romance. Bonus points for V. E. Schwab. ➨Multiple Londons. Gah, London <3 It was actually the main reason why I decided to pick this book up. I’m so in love with that city, you guys don’t understand. ➨A kickass female character. Lila was one of my favorite characters in this book. She is so independent and doesn’t let anyone tell her what to do. I can’t wait to see what trouble she gets herself into in the next two books. ➨Beautiful writing style. I have always been a huge fan of Schwab’s writing style and this book was no exception. I’m not sure how to describe it. It is magical and beautiful but in no way flowery or purple. It reads very easily and I believe that’s the main reason why I finished it fairly quickly. ➨World building. If you’re someone who gets confused by fantasy worlds, I would highly recommend you check out this book because it is so easy to follow. The world isn’t complex at all and it leans more towards the Urban Fantasy genre especially with Grey London. Overall, this was such an enjoyable and quick read. I will definitely be continuing on with the rest of the series soon. There are some perks to being late to the party after all haha. Thanks for reading, please share your thoughts.
2370591742	As usual, there will be some spoilers in this so don't read if that bothers you.Well, that was fantastic! I was shocked at how quickly I read this book. The chapters weren't that long so I fell into the "just one more chapter" syndrome and next thing I knew I said "just one more chapter" six or seven times. I am really happy this is a series because, though the plot was AMAZING I really wanted to dive more into the characters themselves. Like Kell was cool, and the book did a great job at the beginning establishing what his responsibilities were and how he has strayed from them for some time. I just, I wanted more! And obviously Schwab wanted to give us more since it's a series, but, I don't know maybe I'm just rambling, I just really wanted to see more brotherly moments in the kingdom, actually see the king and queen a bit, hear more about the revolutions in white London, I guess I just loved the world so much I never wanted to leave. Obviously, Delilah stole the show. Every scene she was in she made it hers. It was impossible not to pay more attention to her than everyone else and I liked how Schwab blatantly wrote how much she changed at the end when she was fighting the Queen in White London. I thought Rhy had SO much potential and I really hope to see him more in the next books cause that dynamic between him and Kell is fantastic. He is loved by his people and doesn't realize how strong he is because he's constantly comparing himself to Kell's magic. All in all I loved this book and cannot wait to continue the series.
3576150661	This book was so good! This was an epic and exciting fantasy about the cost of power, bravery, friendship, and finding your path. A Darker Shade of Magic follows Kell, a magician who can between parallel universes which includes Grey London (has no magic), Red London (where magic is honorable) and White London (where people fight to control magic). Kell then runs into Lila, a thief and she steals from him and then saves his life. Together they go on a journey that will forever change their world.The pacing in the beginning was slow, but once it picked up I was immersed by this dark and magical world. The plot was exciting and I was engaged in the story for most of the book. This book reminds me of why I love fantasy, it has magic, awesome world building, great characters and excellent writing. The world building was great, the author spent a great deal of time describing the different universes and magical abilities that people have. At first the world building was confusing, but then I was very interested by the magic and the uniqueness of the different worlds. The idea of traveling between worlds is very interesting and I love that the author was able to weave history into the story. The writing was descriptive and engaging. The characters were complex and interesting. All the character face challenges throughout the book and solve these challenges in their own way. I loved Kell, he is brave, resilient, strong, caring, protective and will do anything for his brother. I can relate to Kell because I would also do anything to save my family. I really liked Lila, she is fierce, stubborn, brave, strong, bold and independent. Lila's character development was excellent, in the beginning she was selfish but over time she showed that she cares about others and is protective of her friends. Rhy is also a great character, he is charming, funny, brave, strong, compassionate and caring. The ending was exciting and fast-paced. I can't wait to read the next book! I recommend this book to anyone who loves fantasy, magic, great world building and awesome characters.
1387852323	Attention everyone, if you haven't read this book then I don't even know what you are doing with your life. This right here is one if the greatest books I have ever had the honor of reading. I'm gonna right an actual review with gifts and stuff sometime this week but I must proceed into my reread of book #2
3406818219	A Darker Shade of Magic doesn't completely botch its marvelous concept; I'll give it that. It's a reasonably well-paced, intriguing novel, but it's nothing special. Kell is an Antari, which means he has the ability to travel between four worlds--Red, White, Black, and Grey London. Red London has a healthy relationship with magic, Grey has no magic, White abuses its magic, and Black London was locked away from the rest when magic destroyed them from the inside. Kell delivers messages from one London to another, and sometimes smuggles trinkets back to Red. One day, he finds a stone that turns out to be a piece of Black London magic, which takes over people and turns them into brainless zombies. The ideas behind this book are fascinating. I love the concept of alternate worlds and evil magic that burrows into brains. Unfortunately, I wasn't too invested in the characters or writing, so it fell flat for me. Lila, a street thief who helps Kell, was a Mary Sue character. She's "not like other girls" because she prefers pants to skirts and knows how to use a knife. There wasn't anything really wrong with her, besides her annoying stubbornness, but she didn't have much of a personality. Her motivation was nearly nonexistent, and that collapsed her plotline as a whole. Kell had less of a personality than Lila. He's driven by his own moral compass, and while I have nothing against a "good" character, he got boring. His thoughts were straightforward, he was rarely tempted by much of anything--he had one goal, and he got there. That's it. I was promised angst, and I got none of it. He doesn't have any inner conflict at all. I fluctuated between interest and boredom, so I was hardly invested at the big showdown, which was anticlimactic. I really did love the concept behind this book, however, which boosts my rating up to 3 stars from my original 2.5.
4188964112	~ 4 stars ~This was the first book by V.E Schwab that I have read, and I can happily say that I was not disappointed. I really did like this book. I thought it was a good concept and a very interesting world that I am definitely excited to explore more in the future. I additionally really enjoyed the writing style. I thought Kell was a great character that has a lot of potential depth that could be explored. Same thing with Holland. The villains were just the right amount of sinister, and though their fall felt easy, I was not left unsatisfied. As far as the Lila Bard goes, I loved her in this book. How could I not? She's charming, witty, and wants to be a pirate. Emphasis on the pirate part. Pirates are my jam. Sadly, my initial love for her was quenched after reading A Gathering of Shadows. Same thing with Rhy. He seemed like he was going to be a very fun addition, but unfortunately he simply just annoyed me in the second book. But that information is irrelevant to my feelings about A Darker Shade of Magic by itself. The only real critiques I have are minor. I had a bit of a slow start with this book as it took me a while to become invested in the story. Plus, just in general, I didn't connect with the story of the characters as much as I wanted to. But like I said, these things are minor in regards to my overall experience.I had a pretty good time with this and I am looking forward to both completing this series and reading this author's other books.credit
1934229426	So....when's the next one? ;)
1553040688	"Gray London is yours.Red London, which is mine. White London, which is Holland’s. And Black London, which is no one’s.""And why’s that?""Because it fell." A Darker Shade of Magic was the first book i read by V.E. Schwab. Needless to say, it was spectacular! If someone asked me what this book reminds me of, i would probably say Six of Crows, or The Raven Boys. Not because these three have anything in common, because they don't, not a thing, nada. Because all these series are so unique, unlike anything you've ever read before. When i first read the synopsis of TDSoM, i was afraid i won't be able to make sense out of this. I don't know about you, but i find the idea of "parallel universes" very confusing. It gives me a headache just thinking about "what ifs". Let me tell you, Victoria has a gift! She made it so easy and fun. And now i'm sitting over here, trying to remember why was i so hesitant to pick this up. I mean, there are 4 London(s), White, Gray, Red, and Black. What's so complicated about that? Lmao.Kell is our main character. He is an Antari, which mean he is one of those rare people who are able to travel through the worlds. He is a royal messenger. An adoptive prince. I freaking love Kell. I usually find this kind of characters boring, but Schwab did such an amazing job with him. I have nothing but love for Kell!! Then we have Lila, who is just incredible! She was funny, but she isn't stupid. She didn't annoy me once, that almost never happens! And she kicks ass. I really, really enjoyed her and Kell's friendship. Thank god there was so boy-drama. I also find the whole eye thing so interesting, how Kell's one eyes is coal-black and Lila's one eye is damaged. I have a weird feeling about this. SOO GOODD!
931645710	[4.5 Stars]I really enjoyed this one! I can't wait to see where the series goes.
1940197051	My daughter was right - I did enjoy this book. The world with the different London's was unique and interesting and I liked the characters very much. There were a couple of twists I didn't expect, which was fun as I have a tendency to figure those things out as I go. I will definitely be reading the next book.
1194522290	I love V.E. Schwab. I love her writing style and her imagination is something special that I don’t see very often. Her first adult novel Vicious blew me away and made my list of Favorite Books Ever. Naturally, I was excited for A Darker Shade of Magic, in fact, it was one of my most anticipated releases of 2015. And I enjoyed the novel, I really did. It was a quick read. The chapters moved quickly (they’re very short) and Schwab has the kind of writing style that really pulls you forward in the story. Whilst reading I was never bored and always wanted to know what happens next. When I finished I didn’t feel disappointed despite my high expectations, BUT I did feel like something was off. Like I was missing something that would have elevated this novel from a good book to an amazing book. Here is the main problem with A Darker Shade of Magic: In Vicious V.E. Schwab took a kind of generic, quite conventional premise and made it into something special, something that made you think and exceeded the potential you thought a superhero story had. A Darker Shade of Magic is, in a way, the exact opposite. The premise is fantastic: intriguing, compelling, all of the positive adjectives. Unfortunately, that great potential wasn’t fully realized. The story follows Kell, one of the last travelers called Antari who have the ability to travel between parallel universes. There are four different worlds, all connected by one city: London. There is Grey London, the equivalent to our London in the early 1800s, Red London, where Kell was raised and in which magic is abundant and White London, a place that has been ravaged by magic and seems close to complete annihilation. A long time ago, there was also Black London, but people don’t speak of that world anymore. It has become more of a legend. Officially, Kell is an ambassador who carries correspondences between these different Londons. However, he also uses his ability for a bit of a darker, and illegal, purpose. You really shouldn’t know more than that going into the story. In any case, I’m sure you can see why I was so intrigued by this story concept. Throughout the first third of this novel I kept thinking “this is so cool!” and “that’s awesome, why didn’t I ever think of that?”. The worldbuilding is extremely well done. Schwab’s descriptions and explanations were enticing and despite the complicated world she had to set up there was no info-dumping whatsoever. Her world made sense and it was deeply satisfying to see the story unfold within it. The magic was extremely interesting, I loved how there was not just one way to work magic, instead there were layers upon layers and I felt like there was always something new to discover. So, let’s talk about the characters. I enjoyed them. I was intrigued by them when they were first introduced and cared enough about them to want to know their fate. Both Kell and Lila were complex, adventurous and determined, as well as slightly arrogant, but in a way that wasn’t annoying. However, even though I enjoyed the two protagonists as well as the side characters, I couldn’t fully connect with any of them. The reason for this I think was that all the characters felt kind of “tropy”. I felt like I had seen all of them before. I really liked Kell but didn’t understand his motivations, both for his actions and his relationships. I feel like his relationships pre-page-1 weren’t dived into enough so that I couldn’t really feel the love and connection that existed between the different characters. Lila, our main female lead, I should have adored. She is intelligent, independent, brave and defies the role she has been given by society. And yet, she fell flat for me. She felt like a character I had seen before, almost an archetype in fact. Unfortunately, there also wasn't a lot of character development. I get that this is a trilogy but the author still should have given us more in this first installment. The villains, unfortunately, were a real disappointment. Way too black and white for my taste, we didn’t get any backstory and they just seemed like a missed opportunity. A lot of the characters in this book were morally ambiguous, which I love, but instead of showing us both the good and the bad they just kind of stayed in the middle, you could almost say “neutral”, which then caused me to not feel enough for them. Plot-wise this novel was nothing that special. It was certainly entertaining but there was nothing that truly shocked me. Part of that I think was that there wasn’t really a consistent set of rules for the magic. It sometimes seemed like the author kept bending them to fit the need of her story, which then resulted in a plot that was slightly unsatisfying and just missed that certain “boom” factor that could have made A Darker Shade of Magic a five star book.I still highly recommend this novel (and everything else by Schwab) and will definitely be picking up the next one. I have a feeling that some of the problems in this first installment will be solved in the next book. Here's to hoping!Last remark: Can someone please get me Kell’s coat? I NEED IT!
1579756132	Do you remember the book you read just after finishing an amazing 5-star whirlwind of a novel? Yeah, me neither. And A Darker Shade of Magic happens to be precisely this book. A noncommital 3 stars, with the actual rating closer 2,5. When I started reading, my mind was still sitting on the Unhewn Throne and replaying the last cadences of The Last Mortal Bond. For a moment it looked like the colourful Londons stacked like pages in a book, the ingenious idea of Antari tavelling between the worlds, the magic that can be befriended, seduced or conquered, but in either case needs to be mastered, will have an upper hand. I liked the design, Kell seemed an amiable fellow albeit, with a propensity for darker shades, the setting was ripe for intrigue on so many levels that I just, just started to warm up...... and then Delilah Bard happened and promptly, as if on a clue, everything went cliche. Hey there Delilah (I know the times are getting hard but girl...), do you really have to be another type of female protagonist espousing the banal feminism based on thinking that a girl is only as strong as much she emulates masculinity? Girls wearing trousers as if it is a weapon of sex destruction are so boring. We could never be friends, you an I. I like strong females, not females pretending they are strong boys. Also, it might just be me (skimming shamelessly at this point) but the whole plot kind of escaped my attention. (view spoiler)[ Why did they need Kell for taking the stone when Holland could do it? Why taking the stone at all when Red London could be easily infiltrated from within without Kell being any wiser? (hide spoiler)] The whole enterprise seemed a bit pointless, things were happening randomly (including romance), a convoluted battle scene turned out to be the climax, whereas the climax I expected along the way (i.e. entering Black London) never happened. It felt as if you read the whole Tolkien trilogy only to learn that Frodo pushed the evil ring on the finger of dead Sam and shipped him into Mordor without ever going there.But the funniest thing is that there will be a sequel! What point of the non-existent plot exactly needs a sequel I cannot tell. Why bother? I have no idea. Aside from the fact that the tomboy and the sad mage need to have their love story. Probably they will promise each other worlds of meanings and instead will receive a tombac of undelivered expectations. Just what I received in the Darker Shade of Magic.
1621197634	This very good fantasy novel is a Kindle freebie through June 15, 2018, if you're part of Tor's ebook of the Month Club (which is also free, and I haven't found any downsides to being a member). Here's the link to join and get the book: https://ebookclub.tor.com/What a great setting and concept! Parallel universes with different Londons, Red, White, Gray and Black, differing cultures and levels of magic. Non-magical Victorian London is the Gray one. Red London is the place to be if you like magic. White London is a chaotic and deadly place and Black ... is a dead place better not talked about. But only a very few people, the Antari, have the ability to travel between these worlds. Kell is one of those few, combining his duties as an interworld ambassador with a little lucrative smuggling on the side. When things go wrong, badly, Kell tries to escape and gets mixed up with a pickpocket from Gray London, Delilah Bard. Lila has big ideas and a vision of what she wants from life, and likes the idea of having Kell take her to other parallel worlds where there might be more opportunities for a tough, determined girl like her. It's not clear whether she'll be a help or a hindrance to Kell, but dangerous and evil forces are out to get both of them now.I enjoyed it. It's kind of a crossover YA/adult fantasy novel, with main characters in their late teens or early twenties), but fairly high on the suspense and violence scale.
3308810592	4.25 starsI took a huge risk with this series. Normally, I buy the first book in the series to see if I like it enough to continue or not, then I would buy the rest later. This series was on sale and I’m a sucker for those, so I took the risk and bought the whole series while begging it to please be good. Thankfully, it turned out to be really good and I won’t spend the quarantine crying over the wasted money! I’m so happy I finally read a Victoria Schwab book! Her writing is so good! I loved the world building and those characters! Her imagination and creativity are flawless. I’m still kinda sure this could’ve easily been just a standalone, so I’m both nervous and excited to continue with the rest of the series.This is a book about four Londons, amazing magic, a hero with a cool multilayered coat (which I’m freakin obsessed with), and a freakin kickass thief as our heroine. what more could you ask for?!This may seem like a traditional fantasy book, but for some reason it was different and unique in its own way. I couldn’t help but feel really invested into the characters and their world!
7841167939	3⭐️While I may have rated this a 3 star, it certainly wasn’t a strong 3 star. I was bitterly disappointed once I finished this to say the least.This book was fun, but it was definitely one of the slowest fantasy books I have ever read. It took sooooo long to get anything going in this. I kid you not, we didn’t get to the pain point of the book until 200 pages in…and it was 389 pages. You’d think this might be a bit faster paced for such a short fantasy books, but you’d be wrong (I know I was).The characters didn’t have a whole lot to them; no backstory, no history, nothing substantial. It was a bit disappointing thinking you’re going to get sucked into these characters and their life when in reality nothing about this had a whole lot of meat to it. I would have preferred a longer book with more details rather than a shorter book skipping over everything that had to potential to expand on.The main reason this book is getting 3 stars is because the ending (or the last 150 pages) was enticing and thrilling and exciting. While it started off slow, I really enjoyed the ending. If I was looking at it as a whole, however, it severely lacked in several departments.As being a huge V. E. Schwab fan, I think I went into this with too high of expectations and what I wanted out of this which led me to be very disappointed when it didn’t measure up. I think this book was good once we got through the first grueling 200 pages, but man…that’s a lot of pages and a big chunk of a book for things to be slow. I didn’t find myself being sucked in and invested until after that mark. After that though? Amazing. I was really really enjoying myself and the ending came up super fast once all the action started happening.I also want to point out that during those 200 or so pages, I felt like a lot of words were being said but nothing was actually happening. A lot of details felt unnecessary for the story progression and kinda seemed like filler content. I’d usually not have a problem with it if it didn’t take up SO MUCH of the book.That being said, I’m willing to give the second book a try. I’m curious to see how the rest of the trilogy goes given the ending of this one. Hey, maybe I’ll end up liking the next 2 more, but now I know to go in not expecting the world like I did this time. 😭~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~𝓟𝓻𝓮-𝓡𝓮𝓪𝓭:If mother writes it, I read it 🙂‍↕️No but I’m so excited for this I haven’t been able to stop staring at it on my shelves and if this disappoints I’m gonna be so upset 😭
2180997605	A Darker Shade of Magic was an absolute wonder!I've been told to read this series for years, but only got around to it this year. I've read a few of V.E. Schwab's other books, and I had a feeling I was going to love this one too.This book seemed a bit different than her other works for me. I felt like it took me a while to get into the story. Which wasn't what I faced when reading her Villains and Monsters of Verity duology. It was just as good but needed a lot more focus.The world of A Darker Shade of Magic is complexly built with it's magic system and multiple London's. I adored everything about this book, but the pacing was a bit slow. I understand that there's a lot of world building and explaining that needs to be done, and I'm usually alright with books that are a bit on the slow side. It's just that after a while I was worried I would put it down and never come back to it again. Luckily I pushed forward!Slow pacing aside,Lila Bard was a total badass, and I just loved reading from her point of view throughout the book. My other favorite character was Kell. Kell I would die for and will protect till the ends of the earth. Moving on from that, I enjoyed the story and the events that took place. Going deeper into the book things got more exciting. The events seemed more fast paced, and I felt anxious seeing things unfold. Especially the last part of the book. The ending though made the book feel like a standalone. I'm still not sure what will take place in the next book, but I'll definitely be continuing the series.
1522174163	First Read: April 2017, Rating: 4/5 starsSecond Read: February 2023, Rating: 4/5 starsThis is the first instalment in the Shades of Magic series.Victoria Schawb is such an emotive writer, and the first book in the renowned Shades of Magic series just proved that once again.I was immediately immersed into this innovative and unique fictional world after reading the innocuous-sounding first line: Kell wore a very peculiar coat. As the characters ventured through different Londons and encountered a variety of magical and non-magical friends and foe I remained as enamoured as I did on page one.From there, this book continued to explore themes of political intrigue, expand the illustrious magic system, and exempt an overabundance of romance to impede on this brilliant fantasy adventure.
1944496525	LOVED THIS BOOK! Cannot wait to read the rest of the series!
1465878053	OH MY GOODNESS. BOOK I SALUTE YOUAnd would you believe I almost dumped this book in the beginning because it bored me to tears?▶ LET ME BREAK IT DOWN FOR YOU(Because, believe me, while I was reading those first pages I kept wishing someone would) STORYLINE “There are four worlds,” he said. “Think of them as different houses built on the same foundation. They have little in common, save for their geography, and the fact that each has a version of this city straddling this river on this island country, and in each, that city is called London.” In the old days, before the black plague, the doors between worlds were opened, magic was balanced, and people traveled from one world to another. Now the doors are closed, and the only thing left after the black plague are dark stories of the fall of Black London - and every other London conquered by magic. Kell is a royal messenger, possession son, adopted by Maresh empire which rules Red London. He is also an Antari. A blood magician, one of the only two people left who is capable of traveling between worlds, and one out of the two left of his kind. As it turns out, dark magic is still alive, so together Kell and a Grey Londoner, Lila Bard, set out to dispel it in order to stop it's spread.▶ I NEVER THOUGHT I'D GET TIRED OF SEEING THE WORD "LONDON" The story is built around a fantasy world where 4 interconnected worlds, all named London, are either ruled, ravaged, or consumed and vanquished by magic. The four worlds in order of their placement. Grey London: Grey London is ruled by a mad King, George. In this London, magic is dead. The citizens are oblivious to it's existence. They have little or none of it. And like their name suggests, they are grey- as in not lively, boring and quiet. Grey London receded into quiet obliviousness Red London: Red World is a world ruled by the Maresh Dynasty(they've got the hotties. Just so you know where my vote lies). In this world, Life flourishes and magic is practiced, revered and balanced. Red not only survived but flourished White London: White London is ruled by the Dane twins, Astrid and Athos. This London is ruled by hunger and violence, and a bloody thirst for power. In the old days, they sought to bind magic, overpower and control it. But things got out of control, magic turned on them and instead they were ravaged by it, sucked dry and left hungry and more savage than they originally were. White London had taken the opposite approach, seeking to bind power in any way they could. Power in Balance became Power in Dominance. White was forever changed. The city, once glorious, fell to chaos and conquering. Blood and ash. Black London: Is a barren and deserted London ruled by no one. A London vanquished by magic because they blindly let it in, let it overpower and consume them. Black London had let magic in, let it take over, let it consume. Blood was magic made manifest. There it thrived. And there it poisoned. Kell had seen what happened when power warred with the body, watched it darken in the veins of corrupted men, turning their blood from crimson to black. If red was the color of magic in balance—of harmony between power and humanity—then black was the color of magic without balance, without order, without restraint. ▶ DO I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE WORLD BUILDING? Hell yeah. Buuuuut first a little about the writing Which uses third person narrative. I know. I went "Boooooo!" too. But, if you're able to get past that, you'd be surprised to find that the writing, though not poetic, is very engaging and fluid. It wasn't as evocative as I would have liked, but I won't be greedy.So what was I saying about the world building? For want of a better word, can I just say it was magical. Simply awe-inspiring. I mean, honestly, how do you build something as complex and distinct as that without it tying a knot of confusion around itself? Sure, there were a few holes here and there, but they didn't mar the splendor of it all. I was still very entranced by the fantastic world our characters lived in. I honestly didn't think I could be enthralled by a fantasy world anymore. But this one was a pretty neat surprise. And I bet there are many like me who don't believe in the uniqueness of a fantasy world anymore. But I'm just saying ▶ THE LONDONERS I CARE TO MENTION ✔ Kell of Red London: All I can say isHa. If only that were true. Kell is a fairly endearing character who assumes two roles in his life. The first as a royal prince, and the second as a smuggler and dealer in contraband goods. Of course, since they're contraband, it's only reasonable for a price to weigh heavily on those who are caught smuggling the aforementioned goods. The crime is treason, and the price is death. But anything for thrill, right? Kell isn't my typical swoon-worthy hero. There was just something about him that never quite resonated with me. But I really love his character ⬅⬅ in a very, very platonic way. The thing is, with respect to the characters in this book, my emotions rest pretty much in a gray area. Neither here nor there. But if we're giving points based on their general awesomeness - and not on my personal relations with them - they pass pretty much with beautiful flying colours.✔ Lila of Grey London Kick ass. She is just KICKASS. Well.. She's also a thief, a highly skilled pickpocket to be exact, but, she's also an incredibly strong character. Initially, to be honest, I didn't like Lila at all. I just felt like she was too showy and pretentious for my liking. Like her character was a bit emphasized and over personalized. There were so many moments when I felt greatly irritated by her demonstrations, it was like her character was trying too hard to prove she was not just any other girl in a fantasy book; trying too hard to fit the tomboy image. Just trying too hard. But I really can't tell you when everything changed for me. I just started liking her better for her astounding qualities, I guess.✔ Holland of White London: Holland is the second of the last two Antari left. He possesses the same abilities as Kell, if not more. And let's just say his character is...something. He's the kind of character who straddles the thin and fragile line between full blown villainy and non-villainy. A very difficult character to decipher indeed. But the reality is, his goodness is very much in doubt - and possibly nonexistent. So much of my frustration stemmed from his presence in this book, and though there were a lot of times when I thought he'd make my choice easy, he just ended up infuriating me all over again, every single time. He was just a big disappointment, and yes, I know it wasn't his fault, but I really have to say it▶ ROMANCE (BLANK SPACE)Nothing to see here, romance lovers▶ ALL THE POTHOLES AND YOU DIDN'T REALLY THINK I'D FORGET ABOUT THE ADVENTURE NOW DID YOU? Let me be honest with you, and let me be honest with myself. And please don't bite me. There is nothing really outstanding about this book save for the intriguing world and the amazing action and adventure-filled scenes. But that's just my humble opinion. This story is just really appealing. I had problems with the first part of this book because I felt like there was a lot of telling and no doing. I was bored. But in retrospect, I think that had more to do with me being a little bit impatient than it did with the book itself. But I'm glad I stuck through it all, because I was rewarded, and greatly so.There was also the more nagging problem of the magic being performed. I quite frankly did not understand the pattern to it at all. I mean, it's manifestations were awesome and impressive, but - and it's a humongous but - the pattern eluded me. It just felt a bit rowdy and in disarray. And let's not even talk about the many issues which were hinted at or introduced into the story,but left unaddressed.So maybe I'm a bit biased about my rating, because I'm an adventure junkie and this book is teeming with perilous escapades and a lot of action.One minute, our hero and heroine are in the clear, and the next they're in danger and on the run. Then they're making stupid decisions. Careless stupid decisions. And it's just so very simpleTHEN DON'T FREAKING DO IT. I don't even want to talk about how it felt like a never ending series of adrenaline rush towards the ending. It's almost the same feeling I get when I'm watching football.I seriously dropped my book and applauded and jumped about for a bit whenever the good guys had their winning streak.GRYFFINDOR WINS!!! AGAIN.▶ ANNE'S CHECKLIST OF AWESOMENESS ☑ Awesome writing ☑ Awesome world building.☑ Awesome characters☑ Awesome romance Let's not be liars now.☑ Awesome adventure packed scenes☑ Awesome-not so awesome villains(I'm kind of iffy about this last bit)
1260801448	If you're looking for a fast and fun book that's filled with thrills, A Darker Shade of Magic is probably for you. The action takes a few chapters to get going, but once it does, it's like an avalanche charging down a mountain that gets faster and grows larger every second. My problem is that it builds up so much momentum and moves with so much speed that it comes less to a clean ending than it does splatter to a crazy mess in White London.The magic literally falls apart at the end. So much of the story is built around two main characters, known as Antaris, being able to transfer between different versions of London. Then, a stone--eerily similar to the One Ring--is introduced to change that, allowing another character to transfer between worlds. After the climax, when the protagonists are trapped in an impossible predicament, they just magically get out of it, both stating "It's not possible", even though it still happens. And the worst part is, this isn't the first time the words "it's not possible" are muttered just before exactly that impossible thing happens.For me to buy into fantasy, the magic has to have rhyme and reason, and throughout the story, consistently, the magic doesn't. So although it's fun and fast and filled with twists, it just fells like a lot of things randomly happening. And unfortunately, it seems like an overarching theme throughout this book. The perspective changes from one character to another, and at the end of most chapters, it's unclear why.One of the focal characters, Lila, is really analogous to the story as a whole. At one minute, she's a street-hardened thug with the brains to save the day, the next she's throwing immature temper tantrums like an annoying toddler, and the next she's the comic relief fool. Like the story, she's consistently fun, whether a total badass or a prankster, but does that really make sense? No.
