3652358403	can this series have ten more books? thank you very much😭
3473501860	all the Nate content gave me lifeAND I ACTUALLY LOVED DAVID??? who am i-RTC(4.5⭐)______ Pre-read Review: All I need in this book is more Nate
3835811366	Ding ding ding! We have a big WINNER! I loved this standalone more than Truly Devious Trilogy! It was amazing to see my favorite gang members back! ( of course I talk about Stevie- Nate and Janelle) Douchebag David is also back! But something magical happened in this book: I learned to tolerate David: I never fantasized to perform 100 ways of punching him. Especially at the last third of the story he earned so many brownie points with his contribution to solve the case and proved himself as a devoted member of the team. But I’m still watching him! I hope he doesn’t screw again and confuses Stevie’s mind!Stevie is one of a kind. Most high school teens have different hobbies. Some of them into sports. Some writes…Some draws… Some dances… But Stevie solves crimes. She already solved Ellingham Academy’s coldest, very famous case which occurred mid 30’s. Stevie is still quirkiest Queen: reminding me of my teenage years: whodunnit books, true crime addiction ( additionally she also devours true crime podcasts), suffering from anxiety issues. She’s interesting way to look at things and see the world from different view! Now she is working at her summer job at charcuterie, cutting cheese in thin pieces, struggling not to fantasize how to kill the customers in 5 million creative ways. But an email changes everything. Carson Buckwald, owner of Box Box recently purchased a camp site at Western Massachusetts called Camp Sunny Pines which was used to be called Camp Wonder Falls where the Box in the wood murders have been committed in summer of 1978 : 4 innocent camping counselors: young teenagers were massacred. Now Carson makes a true crime podcast/ documentary about the camp and he heard about her brilliant performance at Ellingham Academy. He asks her help by providing her fully paid summer job at the camp. She can also brings her friends. A big bold YES! This is the opportunity she’s been looking for. Janelle and Nat already says yes and David hmmm yes he’s always extra annoying who promises to join them later and wants her to keep him updated about events. So the gang reunites the solve the 4 decades long mystery and this is where I’m shutting my big mouth! This is unputdownable, addictive, exciting, one of the fastest reads of mine! I’m telling you this is so much better than trilogy and if you haven’t read Truly Devious series you may still read this book because the author summarizes the past events adroitly and briefly so you can catch it fast and take your ticket to this wild ride! I’m giving my five murder mystery, quirky Sherlock Holmes meets Poirot apprentice, teen slasher vibes at the camp side, exciting, action packed thriller stars!
3964060982	Hi MTV, and welcome to my purgatory crib.Come on in. Make yourself at home. But also get homey while you're walking, because it's tour time. So...yeah. This is my humble abode and the location of my unrelenting mundane quasi-punishment. Over on your left, you'll see a pretty good series starter, a mystery book with fun banter and completely unhinged and unrealistic characters but also an autumn-y boarding school setting. Highs and lows.Up ahead, there's a slightly worse version of the same thing. No need to spend much time here. It'll only get less interesting if you keep thinking about it.Okay, if we keep moving a bit, here we are at the original ending of the house. Not what you wanted, right? Pretty unsatisfying, as far as endings go. You kind of realize that the journey here was more fun than the conclusion. So it's no wonder that...aha! Another door. We built a surprise addition! We couldn't end there.So finally, here we are. The center of the home, and the fourth book in the series. Where both highs and lows go to die. Nothing particularly good, nothing particularly bad - other than the pain caused by your memories of when things were better. Not good - never good - but better.There's no way of knowing, but Maureen Johnson might just keep building. Aren't those memories, that nostalgia, your yearning for things to be as okay-to-good as they once were - aren't those enough for you to come back for the rest of the tour? It's a pretty sh*tty house. But maybe it'll get better. There's always that.Bottom line: Quick! Run, while nobody's looking! There's not much time, and like a Sarah J. Maas series, this tour will just keep going!Bottom bottom line: Was this too abstract?-------------pre-reviewthese books are not good and yet........they do have a certain something.review to come / 2.5ish-------------currently-reading updatestis the season-------------tbr reviewi am so excited for this book and i am so certain i am not going to like it. we exist
3776755346	Will not be going camping anytime soon.
4122400030	Nate is one of the best fictional characters ever and I will accept no argument on this matter.
4084461675	as usual, nate carried
3330759498	Not to be dramatic but I'd die for Stevie...I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH MY EMOTIONS RIGHT NOW!
3390845568	** spoiler alert ** 3/5So this was a disappointment. I expected so much from this. I loved the previous three Truly Devious books and there was no reason I wouldn’t read this. Sadly it wasn’t that good.I think a big thing that made me like it less was the setting. I didn’t connect with the summer camp vibes like I connected with the private school in the middle of nowhere vibes of Ellingham Academy. I feel the school setting really gave the story this unique feeling which is odd to say since so many murder mysteries take places at school but those were my feelings! I’m such a sucker for dark academia and this wasn’t dark academia because there was no school 😩It seemed like a typical YA murder mystery. The format of the mystery wasn’t unique and my biggest pet peeve here was NO PLOT TWISTS. What. The whole plot revolves on finding a diary. Once they had it the mystery was solved. It was so disappointing and with the twists in the first three I wished we had had more of that here. Stevie was so annoying here. I’ve never liked her or Nate (unpopular opinion) so having so much of them drained me. My favourite has always been David and his role in this book was so subpar and, quite frankly, I found him annoying. Janelle was her usual good self which was relief.The first few 1970’a flashbacks were so so good and got me completely hooked into the story. But once those ended and we were fully in the present time, I got bored. So many parts seemed unnecessary to me and there wasn’t any drama to make up for the lack of action. Everything seemed so odd. And when we had all those diary entries as well I got bored because all though they were revealing who the killer was, it seemed as if there was no stakes to anything. The conclusion to the mystery itself was so bad. The murderer was a Nazi???????? That was the most random out of nowhere plot twists that made no sense in the slightest. I get the mentions of Germany were foreshadowing but still. It felt so odd to read. He got away with the crime and died free. If you have a nazi as your villain the least you can do is have them go to prison or, you know, get killed. It left such an unsatisfied tone and ending to the story. Overall I wanted to like this but didn’t but if the next book takes place in England as I think it will be based on the hints at the end I’m in bc I adore mysteries in England <3
4709353577	“This whole thing is ticking a lot of the horror movie boxes. Murder at a sleep away camp. A serial killer. A final girl. A kid who died because some teenagers were being irresponsible.”Stevie Bell is home for the summer and working a mundane job behind a deli counter. How could life be so utterly boring after her whirlwind year at Ellingham Academy and solving not just one mystery but two?! One of them as far back as the 1930’s. That’s all about to change when she gets an email from Carson the owner of a well known box service called Box Box and also the new owner of Sunny Pines Summer Camp. Formerly known as Camp Wonder Falls and the infamous spot of The Box in the Woods Murders, an unsolved murder case involving the gruesome deaths of 4 teenage camp counselors back in 1978. Carson has invited Stevie to be a part of his PodCast which will detail the story of Barlow Corners, the victims and the crime itself. Carson would also like Stevie to take a crack at solving the decades old murders.To sweeten the deal Carson let’s Stevie invite along her friends from Ellingham. This is a tougher case than Stevie realized, it’s more emotional and real feeling. She actually witnesses the towns pain and the grieving loved ones are still alive and raw. She needs Nathan and Janelle to help her put together the puzzle pieces from 1978. But someone from Barlow Corners doesn’t want this secret to come to light and Stevie Bell, amateur sleuth extraordinaire might not live to solve another case. Maureen Johnson once again does an amazing job weaving past and present together so seamlessly. It reads so perfectly fluid. She also leaves lots of bread crumbs to follow, but I never would have seen this coming until the very end. I’m not sure how I feel about the reasoning behind murders, but I could actually see it as a possibility. Maybe exaggerated a bit but still possible. Even though The Box in the Woods detours away from Ellingham Academy and has a completely different scenery and scenario along with some new characters thrown in the mix, it doesn’t lose its charm. Stevie and friends never fail to disappoint. With Stevie being the oddball girl that loves everything murder, Janelle the lovable best friend who never met a craft (or project) she didn’t like and Nathan my favorite of them all whose sarcastic humor and whit kept me laughing even with some serious tones, I couldn’t help but fall in love with them all over. And they do Summer Camp in only ways that they can do. My only complaint is I would have liked a little more on Stevie’s friends. I loved the 70’s nostalgia and the references to Led Zeppelin and Fleetwood Mac. These were groups a bit before my time but I can remember my mom listening to their music when I was just a young child. The songs Sabrina and friends were listening to brought up some warm fuzzy memories. That’s always a plus! I was worried I would become bored with the Truly Devious series, but if anything I’m eagerly anticipating the next installment, to see where Stevie’s new year at Ellingham Academy takes her and who’s next on the chopping block. 😁
3466020257	Full review to come!
4062160634	3.5 stars reading vlog: https://youtu.be/yOpShJza85Athis book had 5 star potential until THAT ENDING!! maureen babes what were you thinking
3442702646	4.5 starsWhen I say that I screamed my head off when I got approved for The Box in the Woods, I’m not exaggerating in the slightest. Truly Devious is one of my favorite mystery series, so when I heard that there was gonna be one more book in the series, I couldn’t believe it. And this stand alone spin off did not disappoint!Reading this was like returning to an old group of friends. We got to see Stevie, Nate, and Janelle in a completely different setting, but the charm of a cold murder case still surrounds them. Maureen Johnson KNOWS how to plot out a mystery. I am absolutely terrible at predicting the events in books, so the whole time it’s a complete guesisng game for me. It’s always fun because I can never tell which clues are actually hints, and which ones are meant to throw the reader off. But by the end reveal, everything came together, all the clues lining up perfectly. Now the only thing I want to do is go back and reread this entire novel just so I can pick up on the hints that I missed.For me, The Box in the Woods was everything I loved about the Truly Devious trilogy, but at the same time I have the exact same critiques, there wasn’t much improvement. I still adore Stevie as our main character (though at some points she gave off “not like other girls energy”), the friendships between all the academy students, and the tension you feel while reading the novel. These are all things that have carried over extremely well from the original trilogy. Yet, the most glaring issue was the romance between David and Stevie. It’s just not there, there’s no spark. And I do think there is a decent amount of filler in this series, maybe if I go back and reread it won’t actually seem like filler, but the first read can drag a bit.If you enjoyed the original Truly Devious trilogy, you definitely will want to pick up The Box in the Woods, you won’t want to miss the reunion of the Minerva house gang!
4061512451	About the book: After solving the case of Truly Devious, Stevie Bell investigates her first mystery outside of Ellingham Academy in this spine-chilling and hilarious stand-alone mystery from New York Times bestselling author Maureen Johnson.Stevie and her friends from the Ellingham Academy are spending summer together investigating old murders/cold cases. Of course this is a dangerous, thrilling, and chilling job. I read this book in one sitting and could not put it down. Calling all crime thriller, mystery thriller, young adult thriller lovers, or those who are already fans of this spectacular series. What a gift from Maureen Johnson!I received a gifted copy from the publisher. Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader
3407714238	OH MY LORD! Where have I been?! Has this JUST been announced or something?! I’m SO F*CKING EXCITED!!!! I literally never would have expected this!HELL YAH!
4482439592	the thing about these books is that they are not good but they are also so good.
3490548870	uh...okay sure.
7699660958	𝟒🌟!!! "You're too obsessed with true crime." God forbid a girl’s determined to solve an unsolved 1970s cold case, choose murder investigations over crafting friendship bracelets at summer camp.ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ 𝐩𝐫𝐞-𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐝: I’M BACKKKKKK. Bloody hell, it’s been a minute since I’ve been on Goodreads since life has been hectic and I haven’t got time to read😭. On a positive note, I did pass my theory test for driving so that’s just made my day better!!😌🤍
4005317706	***4,5 stars***Absolutely LOVED the Truly Devious series and this fourth book was no exception. It's funny, witty and murdery goodness! Maureen Johnson is such a talented author - as long as she writes, I'll read. The Box in the Woods is separate from the other books, but it's just as juicy and good. It continues with Stevie Bell and her friends solving cases, this time at a summer camp, where 4 teenagers were murdered in the 70s and no one has ever figured out who did it.Entertaining, thrilling, and mysterious, this series is great for true crime lovers of all ages.
4666887449	I enjoyed the new mystery. Although I wish we had spent a little more time on it. Things felt kind of rushed towards the end. Stevie had her monologue moment that I have come to love. I loved the dramatics of assembling the town to hear her theories that are most likely correct. I liked seeing this great group of friends in a different setting. There was more Nate and I of course loved that he is such a funny character. Janelle took a bit of a backseat in this and that was a little disappointing but I liked seeing her when she was in a scene. David is slowly growing on me. He was super sweet to Stevie and I really just want to see her happy. I am super excited for the next book, it definitely has me intrigued. If you haven't read this series I strongly recommend that you do.
4129964417	what the fuck did i just read (derogatory)
3402889311	I really enjoyed the trilogy that included Stevie and her friends solving the mystery of Ellingham Academy, and was thrilled to see that the Truly Devious series had a fourth installment. This one takes Stevie, Nate, and Janelle to a summer camp, best known for the Box in the Woods murders that took place there in the late 70s. The new owner thinks Stevie is the one to solve the crimes, even though they are decades old. For you fans--yes, David is included in the story. I'm not sure I really connect with their relationship, but it wasn't a huge focal point of this book, so I'll overlook it for the moment. I did appreciate Stevie's astute assessment of him at one point. Don't want to spoil things, but suffice it to say that I really admired her as a character when she made the observation about his privilege.This book was like a comfortable hug. I have come to love these characters and the mysteries they solve. There's humor, funny dialogue, and a decently clever (if just a little bit Scooby-doo-ish at the end) mystery. The 70s setting of the murders was also a nice addition, because it can allow today's readers to see just how far police investigation and technology has come. I hope the author continues with this series because there are many directions this can go now, and I'll take all of the contemporary YA mysteries!I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book, all opinions are my own.
6734920617	read on: (26.10.24.) ꒰📦꒱ the box in the woods by maureen johnson↪ ★★★.75 intrigued starsi. | the plot.----> after solving the ellingham murders, stevie bell is back at home. there, she gets a message from the new owner of sunny pines, a camp formerly known as camp wonder falls - where the box in the woods murders took place. four camp counselors were killed in the woods outside of the town of barlow corners, their bodies displayed in a gruesome manner. the owner offers stevie an opportunity to solve this cold case, under the guise of a camp counselor for a week. stevie agrees, under one condition: she gets to bring her ellingham friends - nate, janelle and vi. ❝ sometimes anxiety did that—it could slow you down or speed you up.❞ ii. | a quick warning.----> this book was really nice. different from the original trilogy, of course, and the mystery was written meticulously, as always. i mean, it's maureen johnson - of course the mystery, thriller and writing aspects of the book are going to be impeccable. my only complaint related to the plot was that, nearing the end, we kinda get cut out of stevie's thoughts suddenly when she's figuring the answer. it does bring suspense, but it felt weird suddenly being cut out of her thought process. and now... warning: i'm dedicating a whole section of this review to nate. with a little paragraph about the rest of the characters, but it's mostly nate. because he's just awesome. ❝ that’s the thing about speaking—you can talk and talk and have no idea at all what the words leaving your mouth mean, or where they came from.❞ iii. | a quick dive into the characters.----> gonna write two lines about each so we can hurry onto the next section lmaostevie 🕵️‍♀️ amazing as usual!! i'll always be in awe of her brain. but i feel like her thing with david has made her a little shallow and ... uh, dumb. but i still love her character and how she cares for her friends.janelle 🌻 in the original trilogy, janelle was my fav character. she's on second place now, but she's still a phenomenal character and friend. vi 💋 we don't get much of them, but the few glimpses we get of them with janelle are the cutest!david 🙄 hi bro. how's life. i never liked you. BUT I LOVE MAUREEN JOHNSON FOR MAKING HIM SO USELESS IN THIS BOOK LMAOOO ALL HE'S THERE FOR IS TO COMFORT STEVIE LIKE PLS THAT WAS SO FUNNY side characters 🔪 i um don't really remember much about the rest of them. like, a little, i guess, but not much. their input was definitely needed to make the plot as effective as it turned out.nate 📖 HIIIII BROO HOW ARE YOUUUU hold up we're moving to the next section so i can rant about how good this guy is ❝ funny how the world shifts when you’re in the same space with your friends. the air is energized, the light is warmer.❞ iv. | nate the superior.----> i kid you not, he is by far the BEST character in the entire truly devious world. trust me, he truly is. he's introverted (same), shy (same), doesn't know how to comfort people but tries his best in his own way (same), is writing a book (same), is struggling writing (same), is always confused about life (same), is awkward (same), and is kinda cute (not same). PLSSS THIS BOOK MADE HIM EVEN BETTER THAN BEFORE. like it's SO real of him to agree to come to the camp as a counselor ONLY because he gets to stay in a treehouse in silence AJDHSJKFJF I LOVE THAT. AND THAT LITTLE KID WHO WAS HIS FAN AND WAS DETERMINED TO GET NATE TO WRITE THE NEXT BOOK PLSSSS I LOVEEEE. #ilovethenatescreentime #orpagetimewhatever #ilovethenatepagetime #natesupremacy #nateisthebest #givemeanate #iwantanateasmybestfriend #natecarried #nate4life ❝ 'i’m still going to eat a lot of tacos,' Nate said. 'but i’m going to do it judgmentally.'❞ v. | a few quotes.----> in conclusion, this book, and series, is amazing! cringey at times, especially because of stevie and david, but the side characters and plot make up for it. you can always ignore the plot holes, nobody cares. it's fine. pay attention to the side characters. they're the good part!! alright ... some quotes now. most of them are nate quotes ❝ fashions come and go, but jawlines are eternal.❞ ❝ all. night. he talked about my book. mostly, what he thought was wrong with it. and where is the second one? he knows more about that book than i do. he is a sentient internet comment.❞ ❝ 'she’s like the hulk,' nate explained. 'but instead of transforming when she gets mad, it’s when she sees crafts. and she doesn’t turn big and green. she just makes crafts. so not like the hulk, really.' ❞ ❝ no, hear me out. this whole thing is ticking a lot of the horror movie boxes. murder at a sleepaway camp. a serial killer. a final girl. a kid who died because some teenagers were being irresponsible.❞ ❝ 'there will be children here tomorrow,' nate said. 'children. with their little child fingers.'❞ ❝ i get to live by myself in a tree, doing some bullshit job for no one? this is my dream, stevie. this is my dream.❞ ❝ that nate was feeling so positive should have served as a warning, but people rarely recognize signs when they appear.❞ ❝ i will always love snoopy and nothing can stop that.❞ ❝ campers screamed when they swam and played and sometimes simply for the sake of screaming.❞ xxalmas the almighty─────────────────── 𝜗𝜚 ───────────────────pre-review.this was.........nice, but not as good as i expected it to be. rtc soon!!pre-read.i read the truly devious trilogy last year, when i was getting back into my reading phase again, and i've wanted to read this one ever since! it's a new case, which is exciting, and i love how maureen johnson writes anyway. excited to get into this!!
4625713100	honestly this book gave me the same vibes as listening to a true crime podcast, which i know would make Stevie feel so accomplished.
4674091529	Ok, I liked the first three books in this series but I loved this one! It probably didn’t hurt that this cold case mystery was about a group of teenage camp counselors who were murdered at summer camp! I think I also liked that the murder mystery took one book instead of three. Stevie is ready to spend her summer working in a grocery store and living with her parents when she gets an odd email inviting her to kind of be a camp counselor at a recently reopened camp that hosted a murder in the 1970’s and she can even bring her friends. But her real purpose is to help the new owner solve the mystery and help with his podcast about it. The mystery was well paced, the clues were great, and I loved every twisty second.
3401454336	2.5 ✨ rounded down.90% of this book was so boring I skimmed through it. Literally nothing happened until the last like 3 chapters where everything blew up. The cast of characters were unlikable (except maybe Nate and Janelle that were okay). I liked the reveal. Was it worth the time? absolutely not lol. I should’ve dnf’ed it halfway through.
4181285377	I don't want this series to end yet!!
3367553633	4.5! Maureen Johnson is a genius!!!
3406942272	4.5 rounded up The Truly Devious series is one of my absolute favorite mystery stories so when I heard there was going to be another one I could NOT wait!It’s been weeks since Stevie solved the Ellingham murders and life has gone back to pretty mediocre. All her friends are back to their normal lives outside of Ellingham and she’s taken a job at the local grocery store deli while she waits to get back to Ellingham in the fall. After the news broke about Stevie’s revelations she dealt with her 15 minutes of fame and was bombarded with emails from all over asking for her help in solving all kind of crimes including help finding missing people. None really peaked her interest until she received an email request to work at a summer camp in order to solve a 40+ year murder of four camp counselors and she can bring some friends.Of course I enjoyed this one. The mystery alone was fascinating and we get to see it happen in the beginning of the book which will keep you wanting to read more. Although the majority of the story is from Stevie’s point of view, we do get to see excerpts from one of the victims on the night of the incident. I really enjoyed this format and thought it added some good elements to the story.You’ll still find Stevie’s dry humor and witty banter between her and her friends in this one as well. Those are the parts I loved the most, especially when she brings up “Moose” again! I’d read this one just for those lines. Nate and Janelle come with her to camp and it’s a bit of heaven for both of them. I did want more David in this one and we do get to see him later in the book but for me it wasn’t enough. That was the only thing that was missing in this story for me but overall it has total Truly Devious vibes and to me that is what makes these books some of the best YA Mysteries we’ve seen.10/10 would recommend and often do to people asking me what YA books out there are my favorites!
6272629819	2,5 mai mult pentru partea de thriller. Un caz interesant cu o rezolvare la care nu mă așteptam. Dacă personajele nu ar fi niște adolescenți haotici și cu niște replici îngrozitoare, atunci seria ar avea mai multă credibilitate.
5217966695	I dare you to guess the reason for the murders like not in my wildest dreams
4402682628	*3.5 starsIf I have to hear David call Stevie "my princess" ONE MORE TIME... it will not be pretty. and now I present to you, the slow unravelment of my sanity, beginning with that nickname 💀This book felt like a little bit of a cash grab by the author, tbh. It wasn't necessary- A Hand on the Wall left off at the perfect point, with a perfect conclusion wrapping the mystery up with a bow. I mean, I'm excited to read another Truly Devious book, but it just didn't have the magic that the original Truly Devious trilogy had.The Box in the Woods follows Stevie and her friends during the summer between their two years at Ellingham, a couple months after the ending of A Hand on the Wall.Stevie's bored, without a mystery to solve. She's stuck at home, without her friends, and life couldn't get any worse. But one day, she gets a message from a man who's bought a summer scamp and wants her and her friends to come. It all sounds very normal in retrospective, but it's not, because the same summer camp was the site of the infamous Box in the Woods murders back in the 70s. And guess what? It's been unresolved ever since, but now this new owner (hearing about Stevie's adventures at Ellingham) wants her to solve it. And possibly turn that into a business venture slash podcast. And as usual, people can't stop trying to kill Stevie, so she has to make sure that whoever's stopping her from solving the mystery actually doesn't murder her. I mean, if she's survived Ellingham, she'll survive this, right? plot -I'm so anti half the subplots in this book, it's hilarious *slowly loses her mind*. I mean, I just read Our Violent Ends, so I'm pretty much numb to everything, so nothing in this book affected me much.Like how I hated David and Stevie's whole drama thing? It was horrid to read. It was so unnecessary. Both Stevie and David were acting like long-distance wasn't a thing, smh. It was giving 2010 disney, tbh.I think it was just interesting that the murder took place at a summer camp. But I was also heavily reminded of I Know What You Did Last Summer (if you've read this book you are literally the best person ever <3), and it was just giving those vibes (that book was also like one of the first dark books I'd ever read back when I was REALLY young so some of my recollection is very foggy- i need to reread it).The ending was the best part, though, and the second half. I was actually surprised because while it was who I thought it would be in the end, the truth was SO different than what I originally expected. The ending in those final chapters were very much tell, not show, though. It would have been cooler to see those events roll out irl instead of just having one reveal where it's bam bam bam now you know the confusing truth. characters -Stevie- She's nice. No change. She's just a constant, to be honest- nothing about this girl really ever changes.Nate- the love of my life. I love Nate. We stan Nate so much. He's just always there, the best, the mvp of this book along with Janelle (as usual).Janelle- I wish Janelle had more of a role to play in this book other than lovelorn star-crossed lover (I mean, I might not be the best person to comment on this but COME ON there's so much more to Janelle instead of just moping about her relationship). But as always, she's the best person ever. David- we saw less of David in this book, which was bad because while seeing less of David and Stevie's lovey-doviness is always a pro, there was no comedy. I know this may come as a shocker, but sometimes I actually MISSED David's presence. So, to summarize, I both love and hated David not being there for very long. writing -I found the beginning of this book to be just very boring, imo. It was kind of slow and a lot of it spent time just explaining the location. The contemporary writing seemed to move it along at a slow pace.I wish I wasn't so bored by this book, because I genuinely did have a fun time reading the original Truly Devious trilogy. This book just didn't live up to the greatness of those, and dragged on for a lot of the time.I have a feeling that Johnson will write more standalones or a new series altogether with these characters, because this was released in 2021, to my knowledge, so it's not like the author released this a long time ago and just never wrote another book. Despite me not loving this book, I would still be willing to read any Truly Devious book I can get my hands on 🤷‍♀️I somewhat enjoyed reading the actual mystery part of this book, though, so it wasn't so awful. overall -It's not my favorite book in the series, and it's not my least favorite. I do wish it would have been better than it was, because I was really excited to read this and had high expectations after the third book. I think it's worth giving a try, though, if you're considering it, because the mystery itself was fun to read about, just the execution of it wasn't the best.If this really is the last Truly Devious book, I will be very sad that the journey is over. It's not my favorite, but I did love to read this series and I think it's still a fun, enjoyable read that everyone should try. I've seen mixed opinions on it, so opinions indefinitely vary. I am now officially tired.3.5 stars! Ranking of the series-1. The Hand on the Wall2. The Vanishing Stair3. The Box in the Woods4. Truly Devious
4013807818	I think this was my favorite so far. Once Stevie solved the mystery of the Ellingham murders, I didn't think that there would be anywhere to go. But it turns out that there is: To a sleep away camp in a small town, where once a mysterious serial killer stalked the woods and ended the lives of four innocent camp counselors! BA BA BUM!I just also really love Nate, and his need to be alone and . . . not write. I feel like, away from Ellingham Academy, this was more streamlined, and more intense.
5515467588	4.25 starsmaureen johnson is insane
3473534026	I am impatiently waiting for my Daisy Jones & The Six paperback to arrive and I’ve been filling my head with Fleetwood Mac. So when I found a lot of mention and references toward Fleetwood Mac, I was elated.First of all, wow this book is infinitely better than the first three.The Box in the Woods is Stevie’s first case outside of Ellingham Academy. Some time after the Ellingham case was solved, Stevie got a message from the owner of some summer camp (I forgot the name lol) to solve an infamous murder case happening some forty years ago, known as the Box in the Woods case. Four teenagers were murdered in the woods and their bodies were brutally showed so it resembled a serial killer called the Woodsman. The owner of the camp didn’t buy this though, and resorted to Stevie for help.As he should because things are way bigger than they are.Truly Devious was meant to be a trilogy and the first three books tells about the same case. Personally, I find the first three books quite okay but when you read about the same case for three books in a row, the pacing started to get painfully tedious, even though the Ellingham case was a complicated one indeed. Truly Devious felt like a giant prologue, The Vanishing Stair is my favorite of the three, and The Hand on the Wall got me hooked only to let me down by the ending. Thank God I started reading the series when the third book was already out or else I wouldn’t bother finishing.What I find most irritating about the first three books is the characters. Though the Ellingham case in itself was compelling, it was overshadowed by the annoying characters. So when I read The Box in the Woods, I was honestly surprised to find that the annoying elements from the first three books are basically… gone.This book is addicting from start to finish; so addicting to the point that I couldn’t even jot down notes or form thoughts coherent enough for a review. Stevie, or at least the annoying Stevie that I despised were nonexistent and she kicked ass throughout the whole book. Nate Fisher aka my breath of fresh air, I LOVE him to death. I even love David. Did you hear that? I love David! and I disliked him with burning passion over the course of the first three books. I really REALLY love how the mystery plays out. Unlike the very long and tedious Ellingham mystery, the Box in the Woods case only consisted of one book so to everyone who thought it would be another three-book case, you all can breathe safely. How the case first begun, the foreshadowing, the clues, and even the big reveal was done in such a satisfying and bold manner that it left me feeling so pleased with how it turned out. How such a simple case unraveled to be something much bigger than what they thought, and how the author even thought of all this is beyond me.What I find a pity about this case is how the exciting bits only exist in the second-half of the book. I wouldn’t call the first half boring, though. There are some things going on that keep the story going and it’s such a huge improvement from the slow pacing of the first books. Some of the reveals are downright ridiculous (are you telling me Carson put up a whole ass fabric and Stevie didn’t notice?) but this is fiction and it’s entertaining so I wouldn’t complain about that.
3404018720	NOOOOOOOO I WANT MOREEEEEEEEEE THIS CANT BE IT ALREADYYYYYYYY
3777101360	This DID NOT disappoint and I also need a David Eastman in my life real bad.Also the author said in an interview with Central booking that she is already working on the next one soooo CAN I GET IT ALREADY? And also I am sad this book ended. Really sad
4170521622	Soooooo good! The best one in the series!
3413543291	This book was good, but not great. The mystery was interesting, but I found that the execution fell a little short for me. Since this is book four/a side story in a series, I won't be too in depth with my review, but spoilers probably. CW: murder, death, descriptive bloody horror, drug use, mentions of Nazis and war crimes, kissingIn this summer story, Stevie is stuck at home, working at a grocery store. But then she gets a message from the owner of Sunny Pines, formerly known as Camp Wonder Falls—the site of the notorious unsolved case, the Box in the Woods Murders. Stevie is asked to come to the camp and help him work on a true crime podcast about the case, and she can bring her friends. With Janelle and Nate in tow, Stevie sets off to a camp full of years old mystery. Most of the characters felt the same, but it's a little hard to say that definitively due to the setting being so drastically different than the previous books. Stevie was still Stevie: mystery loving and down for anything. I can't remember if this was so prominent in the other books, but Stevie is definitely the girl who's "nOt LiKe OtHeR gIrLs" in this. It was a little annoying at times, but easy to get over. Stevie is Stevie and I don't really have much else to say. Janelle and Nate are truly just props in this. Nate got more page time than Janelle, and I liked seeing how his character grew in this. Janelle was barely there. Like we saw her a few times, but her character didn't grow at all, didn't see any action, and was just a prop for Stevie. David? He was in this, it was boring and kind of dumb. I just wanted more from their 'relationship', because there wasn't much happening there at all. The guy who hired her and everyone in camp and in town were well thought out characters, though not particularly memorable.The plot of this is similar to Truly Devious, but not as good. And Stevie knew this going in, she said that prior to going to Ellingham she had studied everything and knew the case inside out, and she was unfamiliar with this case. She still obviously got by, and in general the plot was just as interesting and riveting as one would expect. The twists and turns were well executed, and in general the plot was what you'd expect from Johnson with this series. Oh but that ending...The ending of this book is so strange. The way things are wrapped up is just so abrupt, to the point where it almost didn't make sense. And it definitely lacked any weight behind the revelation because it was just so unexpected. The ending just needed to be drawn out a little bit and everything would've been fine, in my opinion. This book reminds me of 13 Little Blue Envelopes and it's follow up The Last little Blue Envelope, also by Maureen Johnson. The first book was stellar, such an exciting self contained story that I really enjoyed. And it's companion novel was..........I don't even know what it was if I'm being honest, but it was not as good. Overall I think this book was a light and breezy addition to the series, and though I think that the series definitely can survive outside of an academia setting, do we really want that? It was a great read, but the ending just didn't do it for me, an I feel like this could've just been a trilogy if I'm being honest. I would recommend this for fans of: Two Can Keep a Secret, A Good Girl's Guide to Murder, and potentially A Study in Charlotte, though that one is much darker.
4245221634	4.5 stars
3466828586	I was a little disappointed in this *please don’t hate me because I wanted to love it*This one just fell flat in my opinion, the mystery was interesting but the new characters weren’t well developed and the romance literally had no plot at all, NATE is my favourite by far.The last fifty pages was just a diary entry and I didn’t feel like she solved any of it?? Hmmm sorry
6596668645	i’m glad this got solved in one book
3626515628	4.5 starsI was devasted when The Hand in the Wall came out because I thought my time with Stevie and the gang was over, finite, done. But here Maureen Johnson is blessing us with a new crime for Stevie to solve and let me tell you, she does not disappoint. As with the original trilogy there is no failing. I’ve never been disappointed with a book or wanted more from them in this series. Johnson knows just how much to give and it’s a true talent in the world of YA mystery thrillers. This time Johnson brings the 70s summer camp slasher vibes to the party and I can tell you now, it’s a fun time. From the very beginning I was hooked and ready to go, ready to find out just how Stevie was going to solve this case that was so new to her. How will she solve the box in the woods murders from 1978? It seems like a feat but Stevie rises to the challenge, as always, but not without a few bumps in the road. The ending had me questioning everything because Stevie fooled even me which is what is so fun about this one. Also, the summer camp backdrop was absolutely perfect. It was refreshing to see the gang interact within a new setting, so it’s not just the same story rehashed. We have new suspects, new witnesses, new secrets to unfold. Though I will say, the romance moments in here don’t entirely do it for me but I can let that slide when the rest of the book is so damn good. ARC kindly provided by the publisher through Edelweiss for an honest review
3454624582	The Box in the Woods is a spin-off standalone (I think?) of the Truly Devious series and includes the best elements of a series and the best of a standalone. We've already been introduced to the characters and I was ecstatic to get more of Stevie and David and their friends. The book didn't need to waste a single page establishing the characters or relationships and benefitted from the ability to dive right in to the story. But as a standalone mystery, I, as the reader, did not need to remember small details or clues from a previous book to be fully engaged in this crime and case. An issue I had with the original trilogy was that there was not quite enough story to spread out over three full-length novels and I think the series would have been stronger as a duology than as a trilogy. That is, of course, not an issue here. The case is creepy and fascinating and complex and I enjoy the dual timelines of the original crime in the 70s and Stevie's investigation in present day. And I loved the camp setting. I hope there is more to come for Stevie.4 stars
3419961673	OH MY GOD THIS WAS SO FUCKING GOOD HELP-JUNE 30: I DIDN'T REALIZE THIS WAS EVEN A THING I AM A FAKE FAN AND SO DISAPPOINTED IN MYSELF. On another note, please oh please let Nate (my love) be a main feature in this book. He's in the synopsis, so I have hope. Also: Nate for aro/ace rep, please? Then I can love him and not have to worry about him having a love interest lmao I'm horrible (but also the rep would be AMAZING considering that the aro/ace community is essentially ignored by society). Anyway: THE COVER LOOKS SO GOOD THE PLOT LOOKS SO GOOD WE ALREADY KNOW THAT THE CHARACTERS ARE GOOD I AM SO FREAKING EXCITED.
4165647358	This one can be read as a standalone, as it is a completely different mystery than the Truly Devious Mystery of Books 1-3. However, you will have some background knowledge and insight into the personalities of the major characters and Stevie's method for solving crime.The mystery was fun, but the investigation was better. Maureen Johnson seems to add more depth to the historical parts of the mystery for some reason.Can we get rid of David already? I thought we had moved on past him. Stevie needs a better partner. Whenever I think that she will finally move on and grow... here we are.4 Stars.
3707175544	They kept the awesome narrator 🥺Was also really exciting and great to be back with the characters (except for David, idk, something about him irks me)Will write a review later on but what I already can say is, that this was better than book 3 lolAh! One thing: The author should have taken her time with the big reveal. There just was not enough built up imo so I may have to rethink my rating because I didn't really like how this played out :/
3273043732	predictable plot twists and the big reveal is dumb and unearned! whatever!
3765899009	definitely not as good as the original three but i had a lot of fun🥳 i hope there are more books in the series😭
3473525900	excellent, excellent, excelleeeennnttttttread this in one sittingi want MORE
4100520133	This is the fourth instalment in the Truly Devious series.Stevie Bell solved the cold case dogging the reputation of her elite boarding school and became a well-known face on all media channels for some time. Now her moment in the limelight is over and the reality of a minimum-wage retail job and a summer at home with her well-meaning, but not altogether understanding, parents has set in. When a new mystery appears and Stevie is personally invited to venture to a summer camp to aid in solving it, she jumps at the chance. Her summer just became less deli-counter and customer complaints and more corpses in the woods and hunting for clues, just how she likes it!Just as in this series' three, previous instalments, I had such a fun time with this book. The mystery was a sinister and haunting one but the way that Johnson, and her characters, confronted it meant this never became too dark or morbid of a read. The addition of real-life, teen problems also provided an affixed coming-of-age and contemporary feel that resulted in an authentic-feeling story crafted. Their drama and angst was never allowed to overtake the primary, crime-solving focus, but it was refreshing to discover so many differing elements presented to the reader throughout this.
4171872642	in a move that will shock literally no one, maureen johnson has written yet another fantastic instalment in the truly devious series and if she would like to continue adding to it forevermore (and at some point get stevie to dump david’s ass and realise her undeniable love for nate) I would be eternally grateful.
3385296580	⭐⭐⭐. 5Funny how the world shifts when you’re in the same space with your friends. The air is energized, the light is warmer.I was here more for the cast than the mystery. Nothing can beat the original trilogy but still the mystery kept me engaged. And all the Nate content we got?? Life. And I'm liking David now? Weird how life works. I would love to read more of these standalones once in a while.
3617351794	The Box in the Woods (2021) is the fourth of a young adult mystery series, Truly Devious, with the difference from the first three books being that while those formed a connected mystery/set of mysteries, book 4 is a complete book in itself.The Truly Devious series is set around Stephanie ‘Stevie’ Bell, who gets admitted to Ellingham Academy, a prestigious school in Vermont which takes in students who are passionate about and gifted in different areas and allows them to pursue a tailored curriculum which will best hone their skills in their field of interest. For Stevie, this was true crime, and she sought to investigate a mystery dating to the 1930s associated with Ellingham, where the founder’s wife and daughter had gone missing as also one of the gifted students from the school. As Stevie joins the school and begins to look into this, she is also faced with a present-day mystery with its own murders. Having solved both sets of murders, she has made a name for herself as an amateur sleuth.In this book, Stevie is at home for the summer vacations, working at a salad bar and wondering what lies next since her stated purpose of solving the Ellingham case has been achieved, when she receives an interesting message. Carson Buchwald, the owner of a company called ‘Box Box’ and also a campsite, Camp Sunny Falls wants Stevie to come there and try her hand at solving a case from 1978, when the camp was known as Wonder Pines, and four camp counsellors/teens from the town were rather horrifically murdered in the woods, a case now known as ‘The Box in the Woods’ murder, one not quite solved. Stevie is interested of course and manages to set things up (that is, manipulate things a bit) so that her parents approve and arrives at Sunny Falls with best friends Janelle and Nate. Her boyfriend David is away working, but promises to visit. In Barlow Corners, the town where Sunny Falls is, Carson announces rather publicly that he plans to make a podcast about the murders and so has invited Stevie there. This gets most of the town’s hackles up for it is still living with the burden of the tragedy, and does not wish to rake things up again. However, one victim’s sister, Allison Abbot comes to realise that Stevie is genuine and agrees to speak to her, also convincing the families of the others to do so. But evil seems to be lurking its ugly head again. Can Stevie solve this case?Written in the same format as previous books with the initial narrative shifting back and forth between events in 1978 and current-day proceedings, before moving completely to the present, The Box in the Woods is a faced paced and engrossing read with a satisfying mystery at its core. The murders themselves are a bit dark and disturbing in terms both of having multiple victims as well as the fact that they were a little grizzly (though the book doesn’t go into unnecessarily detail) and seem to echo a serial killer. But some of the people Stevie talks to seem to have the feeling that the culprit was closer home. The book does give one a fairly good clue as to whodunit (and relatedly a bit of the why) some way in but how that connected up to the victims, one must read on and see. As Stevie starts to interview connected people and piece together things that happen, she begins to find herself and her friends in danger, too. The book also gives us a glimpse of small-town America in its setting in Barlow Corners (the close-knittedness, the power dynamics where certain people remain beyond the law, and so on) as well as changing mores over time, with some aspects overlooked or accepted in the past which are taken more seriously in the present to things that were taboo back then but to which society has opened up now. All of these aspects come up in various threads of the case. Through Stevie’s reading and investigation, we are introduced to the work of Frances Glessner Lee, and specifically her Nutshell Studies which were intricately designed dollhouse dioramas of real crime scenes used to improve the teaching of crime scene investigation. This was something I hadn’t come across before and it was interesting to learn of it. (One can apparently see these in 3D online, but they are supposed to be fairly graphic despite their size).While unlike in the earlier volumes in the series, Stevie here isn’t specifically reading or speaking of Poirot, Johnson does include a nod to those stories in the denouement with Stevie assembling the whole cast if characters to make her big revelation. And for those who enjoy such things (as I do), there is a map of the camp and surrounding areas at the start. All-in-all a great mystery, fast paced and interesting, also a little unsettling, and for me, a very enjoyable entry in the series.4.5 starsBook details: Paperback, Katherine Tegen Books/Harper Collins, 2021; 383pp; own purchase.
4092093070	[Second read review - 3 stars]I gushed about this way too much in my first review lol. It wasn't that great as compared to the Ellingham Academy series, but it was still quite enjoyable to read through.I have to say that Stevie and David's relationship feels quite dysfunctional. The former hates being emotional or talking it out... which is a terrible quality to harbor in a relationship, no matter how "different" and "quirky" it makes her seem. They're always fighting in every single book, usually because Stevie just can't seem to convey her emotions properly. I hope that the author works on their relationship, as well as Stevie's character in the next book. Maybe let her use a lipstick without going through the "oh but I'm not like the other girls, so I can't possibly wear lipstick" mental gymnastics, yeah? I'll be chuffed if she assents to wear even lip balm or gloss!As for the actual murder, ehhhh, it wasn't anything that great, but it also wasn't anything too bad. The most investigation Stevie did in this case was to spot a typo, the culprit was found out by just reading a diary. This felt rather lackluster. Overall, I wasn't the biggest fan of this book. It was quite mediocre, but I am holding out hope for the next installment in this series, which is probably going to get published by the end of this year! [First read review - 4 stars]Sooo good!! I stayed up all night reading it because it was just so intriguing. I couldn't put it down for a minute. Though it was kinda obvious who the murderer was, it was still a lot of fun to watch it fall into place! It was beautifully written, and quite gripping. Also Nate and his treehouse are 2021's top couple
3550261211	GAWD I LOVE THIS SERIESSSSSS 🙌🏽🙌🏽🙌🏽
4191881979	✒︎4 starsI read Nine Liars a few months ago, and had some strong feelings towards that book, so I decided to pick up The Box in the Woods again to ultimately decide whether I would toss it from my bookshelves. I am not. (side note: it took me forever to get through this book because I'm in a reading slump...)I feel very strongly that the Truly Devious series should have ended after the trilogy concluded. I see no point to continue Stevie's storyline when continuing it means recycling the same plot over and over. On top of this, Stevie's character arc is almost never ending. She lies. She deceives. She has relationship troubles with the same annoying guy. She solves mysteries. Exceptional. Pardon my snark, but there is nothing being added to her arc or really any of the other characters that serves as a reason to continue this series. (view spoiler)[Minus Nate coming out as asexual in the most recent book, but that felt shoed in just as a justification for continuing this series. (hide spoiler)] Despite this, I have connected to these characters so much and will continue this series against my better judgement. More than this, I really love the narration used throughout this book. It is the perfect mix of dry humor and description and world building and atmosphere, and that is reason enough for me to be drawn to these books.My rant aside, the plot of this book was okay. It wasn't my favorite mystery out of these books, and I missed more of the flashbacks and news clippings and such. Objectively, it's a good mystery because I had no idea where it was going, despite having had read it once. I don't have much else to say about this book except that I'll be reading the next one. sigh✂︎----------check me out on other platforms! TikTok Twitter Instagram YouTube Patreon
3733930448	i have never cared about this book series and I'm not going to start now butthis was kinda fun? i listened to the audiobook and time just flew by. give the audiobook narrator a raise, they were really good.the reveal was kinda left field but who cares it's all about the journey (and this is coming from someone who constantly drags thrillers for having shitty plot twists).did i mostly care about Stevie's and David's relationship? yes. a ya mystery literally has no business describing being in love so well, yet here we are.
4998284281	I don’t think Maureen Johnson knew who the killer was til we knew who the killer was. And excuse me if I stumbled while reading...that’s how many plot holes were in this book. It was entertaining, though.
4577168255	Maureen Johnson could write 700 books of the adventures of Stevie Bell and I would read every single one of them oh my god
3730197762	4.5 ⭐️
3402034377	I went to read NINE LIARS and realized I somehow forgot to read this one, despite pre-ordering it! Sigh. It was lovely and delightful and full of Stevie goodness, of course.
3317728550	HOLY SHIT STEVIE BELL IS COMING BACK
4118259700	3.5 solid, I guessed the killer right off the bat tho lol
3490442404	3.5 stars ⭐️ rtc
5181821609	من عاشق تک‌تک کتابای این مجموعه‌م...هرکدوم رو که میخونم، بیشتر از قبل عاشق شخصیت‌ها و بیشتر از اون داستان پردازی نویسنده میشم. مارین جانسون دقیقا میدونه چطوری یه کیس رو طراحی کنه که شبیه یکی از پرونده‌های واقعی true crime باشه. اینقدر دقیق و قشنگ که برای من، به عنوان کسی که بخش زیادی از عمرش با این دنیا و پادکست‌هاش و داکیومنتری‌هاش میگذره...کاملا واضحه که این نویسنده وقت خیلی زیادی رو توی این دنیا گذرونده و به تک‌تک جزئیات توجه کرده (در ضمن ذهن خیلی خلاقی هم داره).و اینکه به نظرم خیلی نویسنده‌ی کم نظیریه. چون نه تنها یه کِیس کامل و قشنگ میسازه و بعد کلی جزئیاتی که بعدا مرتبطن رو به داستان اضافه میکنه، توی جاهای مرتبط و توی نقاط مخفی، به نظرم بهترین بخشش اینه که دقیقا میدونه چقدر باید از زندگی شخصی شخصیتا بگه، از روابطشون، از آینده‌شون و از خانواده‌هاشون و اینو چطوری کنار پرونده‌ای که قراره حل بشه بذاره که نه خسته کننده باشه و نه بخش جناییش زیادی بولد و نفس گیر بشه. برای همینه که من عاشق این مجموعه‌ام و به نظرم به اندازه‌ی کافی درباره‌ی این مجموعه حرف زده نمیشه چون با اینکه توی بعضی قضایا شبیه a good girl's guid to mureder ئه، به نظر من چند پله از اون بالاتره. چون هم شخصیت پردازی‌ها خیلی عمیق‌ترن، هم شخصیتا جالب‌ترن و هم پرونده‌ها خیلی خیلی پر جزئیات‌تر و منطقی‌ترن.اگه بخوام از خود این جلد بگم...اول بخش جنایی و معماییش؛ پرونده‌ی جنایی‌ای که استیوی میخواست حلش کنه خیلی عالی بود. جزئیات اونقدر جذاب و کامل بودن که حس می‌کردم دارم یه کتاب true crime میخونم یا به یه اپیزود از یه پادکست گوش میدم. این پرونده منو یاد دوتا پرونده‌ی واقعی دنیای true crime انداخت. بخشی که درباره‌ی خود قتل بود و مکانش و افرادش (میخوام هیچیشو اسپویل نکنم) از لحظه اول بهم وایب کِیس The lake bodom Murders رو میداد. ۴ تا نوجوون، دور آتیش، کیسه خواب...و اینکه اینا بخشی از یه کمپ بودن و فضای یه کمپ پر از بچه‌ها توصیف شده بود منو خیلی یاد کیس Oklahoma girl scout murders مینداخت. و جفت اینا یادآوری‌های خیلی جالبی بودن به خصوص که این دوتا کِیس هیچوقت حل نشدن. و بخش غیرجناییش...خوندن از دوستی‌هاشون که یه سال عمیق شده بور خیلی قشنگ بود...دوستی استیوی و نیت یکی از دوستی‌های مثال زدنیه و گروه سه نفره‌ی استیوی، نیت و جنل از قشنگ‌تریناست. رابطه‌ی استیوی و دیوید...راستش یادم رفته بود چقدر دیوید رو و مخصوصا دیوید کنار استیوی رو دوست دارم. اینکه توی کل کیس ازش حمایت کرد، کمکش کرد و با اینکه خیلی جاها موافق نبود پابه‌پاش رفت خیلی چیزای خوبی درباره‌ی رابطه‌شون میگفت. در کل خیلی دلم برای دنیای این کتاب تنگ شده بود به خصوص که روزایی میخوندمش که همه‌چیز چندین پرده روشن‌تر از این روزا بود و خوشحالم که این کتابم ناامیدم نکرد.پ.ن: هفته‌ی پیش جلد پنجم این مجموعه هم اومد و فکر میکنم به زودی باید اونم بخونم ولی اول وایمیستم یه مدت بگذره تا دلم تنگ شه بعد!
3448270986	No one can dim my pure joy at being back in the mind of Stevie again.I rated this 5 glowing stars because I just adore these books. They are fun, clever and quirky and I was entertained from start to finish. I binged this audio. The murder mystery in this was excellent, I always try to see if I can put the pieces together but in this case I was stumped. So much action and sneaking around in this summer camp setting makes it the perfect fall read. The characters! Let’s just say Maureen Johnson could write a million books with these kids and I would read them all. I love the antics between Stevie and Nate. I love Nate. I literally chuckled at so many parts in this book. I also really enjoyed the sweet romantic moments that were well deserved from the first trilogy. Redemption is sweet. Overall I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend this book and it’s original trilogy. Definitely read these in order. Perfect for fans of A Good Girls Guide to Murder. PS: audio is excellent 👌🏼
4456229092	Quick note: Though this is a standalone, you do need the context of the first 3 Truly Devious books to make sense it. Like the rest of the Truly Devious series, The Box in the Woods carefully weaves the past with the present in a chilling way. And in the present, Stevie Bell is her same wonderfully macabre self. As a standalone, I appreciated that the mystery still felt complete despite not having a full series worth of details and build up. My biggest issue was the setting of summer camp. Or rather, the way the camp seemed to have zero oversight or schedule? I worked at a summer camp for 4 years, so the things Stevie and the rest get away felt hyper unrealistic. But of course, this is also a summer camp where 4 teenagers were murdered…and I have to admit, I have no experience there 🤭
3410197024	This was almost a 4 stars, but man, with that ending Maureen Johnson keeps with the mark of only having 5 stars. This woman is great, she makes you think that you only have chaos when actually everything is one more node in a complex graph. Beautiful, I want to be as smart as this woman someday.
4145130101	I just can’t get over how incredibly addicting and ingenious these books are. I absolute must have at least 26 more books in this world. 🤣Also: SO. MUCH. NATE. IN. THIS. BOOK. 🎉
6718652161	3★ | It’s so easy to get sucked in when you’re young.The Box in the Woods mystery was very intriguing, but the big reveal wasn’t as crazy. I was annoyed as hell with whatever Carson had going on, which was just filler content (and I mean whatever that first sub-plot was). The 1978 who-dunnit wasn’t hard to point out once Stevie started “reading” and the present-time one’s reveal just wasn’t fun to read or satisfying at all. I was kind of just annoyed about the “surprise” at the end (side-eyeing you, Stevie).Anyway, I just loved this book so, so much, and I was so happy that I got to meet these characters again, or I guess I didn’t really love the book as much, but that it made me love these characters even more 😅That random detail about Nate in the beginning of the book was so weird and convenient, but boy, was he a whole mood? I love Janelle as Stevie’s best friend, but come on, it’s so obvious how much closer and connected Stevie and Nate feel/seem as friends? Their friendship just goes deeper for me. (I eat it up!) I also loved that “the” fight so conveniently gave us more Nate and Stevie time even though it took an unexpected and dangerous turn. I swear, I was so sure Nate might get hurt or die at some point in this book, especially in the very beginning seeing as he was gonna be alone in a tree, and then I remembered [minor spoiler for the next book: that Nate stays alive], and all was well, but for some time, I kept thinking he might get seriously hurt. As for David, good for him (his line of thinking and that decision). I wasn’t a fan of his (not sure who even is), but he didn’t seem so bad in this one? I thought he was... great? (Idk). I’m glad for him and our girl, but I really wouldn't give a damn if they broke up 🤣 If I didn’t love Nate’s friendship with Stevie so much, I’d be (force) shipping them. (I say force because while some readers might ship them, I just know neither of them would want that with each other) *shrugs*It's just one of those books for me where the plot might get worse or slightly better than the last book, but it won’t keep me from reading about these characters together ✌🏽Ps: I’ve used the word ‘convenient’ a few times above. That’s because it is. That’s how it felt to me.my ratings/reviews ofTruly Devious — 3.5★The Vanishing Stair — 2.5★The Hand on the Wall — 3.5★Nine Liars — 3.75★***Irony is when you start reading a book because it says standalone, and you know for sure it's gonna be a fast-paced one but not making any progress for two days because life. *sigh****My *being on the verge of a reading slump* (which I'm surely in denial of) decided I needed to come back to Stevie Bell. Hello 👋🏼
3403248565	This entire series has just become the most comforting reads!!I really enjoyed this book and I flewwww through it! Being back with these characters was so heartwarming and I absolutely adored how atmospheric the mysterious summer camp setting was. Unfortunately, this is probably my least favourite out of all of Maureen's Johnson's books in this universe. I felt extremely hooked on Stevie trying to solve this new murder case however towards the end, I lost the intrigue and ultimately found the climax quite underwhelming.
5215197666	Absolute fave of this series so far. It’s been a few days since I’ve finished this and it feels like I’m missing something not being in this world - you know like when you’re watching a really good show and you just want to keep watching it? That’s how i feel. I need more Stevie Bell. I need more crimes to solve.
3435960401	the murder mystery in this book was much weaker and less engaging than the one in the original truly devious series, but the writing and lovable characters were exactly like they had always been! would recommend this to anyone who loves truly devious
6267779596	4.5★ this is my favorite book in the series by far I loved the summer camp mystery in this one and it kept me hooked the whole time. Definitely recommend this series if you liked the aggtm series!!! I’m avoiding reading the last book because I don’t want it to end !!!
