3907376307	Over and out..I am doing something very unusual for me. I am putting this book down. I never dnf a book - you have a higher probability of seeing a unicorn in the wild than seeing me put down a book - until today.I have been applauding other reviewers for deciding not to finish, when a book does not work for then and continued to force myself to read a book I was not enjoying....until todayI wanted really badly to like this book. I was intrigued by the synopsis and high hopes for the book. Unfortunately it was not the book for me. I found I was only mildly interested in the beginning but read until the 30% mark, but it never got better for me. I made the decision to put the book down. Many are enjoying this book and so I encourage all to give this book a chance as it might be for them.Sadly, this was not a good fit for me. Best of luck to the Author.
3939172254	Caldonbrae Hall is an all-girls boarding school in Scotland. It has been a prominent school for over 150 years. 26-year old Rose Christie is the newest teacher they’ve had in years, and also the youngest. She is hired on as a Classics teacher with a Latin focus. As excited as she is for this new journey, she quickly realizes that not all is as great as it seems. The students she teaches treat with her with disrespect, the Headmaster barely gives her the time of day, and the rest of the staff aren’t very supportive.Beyond that, there is uncomfortable tension in the air as Rose realizes that students are to follow the rules, rituals, and beliefs of Caldonbrae Hall to a tee...and so is the rest of the staff. There will be serious consequences otherwise. The beliefs are utterly ridiculous, not to mention aged, in this bizarre tale that moves at a snail’s pace. It was infuriating to see how much Rose put up with, and what kinds of things she saw...while still staying at the boarding school. She’s a good person with little backbone for the majority of the book, but the behavior was mind-boggling. Additionally, the book takes place in 1992, but you’d almost never know it. It seems more fitting in a previous CENTURY, given the way everyone talks and the ideas and beliefs the school has for the students. It’s jaunting to hear one character mention movies such as Batman Returns and The Silence of The Lambs, because other than that, it feels like the 1900’s. Although slow from beginning to end, I was semi-interested during the first 1/3 of the book...wondering where it would go or if anything exciting would happen. Things happen alright, but they’re not exciting, entertaining, or delightful to read about. The suspense and intrigue were seriously lacking. There is also an overabundance of Greek Mythology discussed in the book, and I didn’t see how that tied into the story...although admittedly, I did skim some of those sections. While this one sounded intriguing and will undoubtedly be enjoyed by some readers, I am not one of them. Thank you to St. Martin’s Press and NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review. This book will be published on: 5/18/21. Review also posted at: https://bonkersforthebooks.wordpress.com
3583575514	For 150 years Caldonbrae Hall (called Hope by the staff) has been an all girls boarding school, preparing young ladies to emerge “resilient and ready to serve society”. Or at least-ready to serve a certain component of society.All the male teachers are called Sir, and all of the female teachers will be addressed as “Madam”.You will “buy into” their traditions or you will pay the price. That refers to both the students and the staff. So, when a new Head of Department is needed for “Classics” the headmaster chooses a young teacher named Rose-a young lady he feels can be indoctrinated into their VERY traditional belief system.The year is 1993. But you would think this is taking place in the 1800’s.This book will probably be polarizing.Love it or Hate It. I fall in the second half unfortunately.While the concept is intriguing, the execution falls flat. We spend A LOT of time in the classroom learningA LOT of Mythology from Rose, and are privy to her student’s juvenile dialogue and impolite behavior as things spiral out of control for both teacher and students. (Yawn)The school manages to be similar to a CULT-without the charismatic leader or religious beliefs. I don’t particularly enjoy stories about CULTS or Mythology so I was as doomed as the Greek Goddesses told about within these pages. But, if those subjects entice you, perhaps this book will too! Not one that I will be recommending, although I am sure it will find its audience.2.5 ⭐️Thank You to the Publisher for my gifted copy. It was my pleasure to provide a candid review! Available May, 18, 2021.
3691111778	2.5In 1992 Rose Christie is employed at Calonbrae Hall, a boarding school in Scotland for girls of wealthy and influential families. She is to be the new Head of Classics, a step up the career ladder and a good promotion as she’s only in her mid twenties. She soon learns the school is not the place she thought or hoped it might be as they try to control her in various ways as they churn out girls more suited to the social ideas of the nineteenth century than the late twentieth. I had high hopes of this book as the premise is promising but it soon begins to feel totally off kilter and not in a good way. It’s a boiling cauldron of weird, of ideas that are outmoded, of characters that are awful with little development that just feel like cardboard cutouts the girls are being trained to be. Every feminist bone in my body screams no at this book and there are a couple of instances that make me recoil in revulsion and horror though none of it has any semblance of authenticity. The book is set in the 1990’s not the 1890’s and it makes the whole thing too hard to accept. The dialogue is stilted, clunky, false and feels fake. I feel no suspense, little menace or threat as the blurb suggests and the only Gothic is the building. Th pace is slow, the plot is unbelievable, I want to scream at Rose and tell her to leave, right now and not look back. She does but way too late. Stepford Daughters for wives? Nooooo. I suppose the fact the girls call female teachers Madam should have warned me as I once worked briefly in a school where that was the form of address. Trust me, hormonal teens can get an awful lot of meaning into the word! Shudder. I think it’s clear I did not enjoy this one at all although others may like it better than I do. With thanks to NetGalley and apologies to Quercus and the author that I could not relate to the book. I received this as an arc in return for an honest review.
3895098429	This genre is totally my jam but I had a hard time not wanting to throttle the characters sometimes. 3.5 stars
3587726087	Mamma mia where do I begin.Despite having a deliciously enticing premise, Madam fails on just about every level. Set at the fictional Scottish all girls’ boarding school Caldonbrae Hall, Madam introduces Rose, a bright young ingenue of a teacher who gets a job as the head of Caldonbrae’s Classics department — notably and oddly, she’s the school’s first outside hire in over a decade. She arrives at Caldonbrae and quickly discerns that there is fuckery afoot. The entire function of Rose’s character is to unearth the fuckery. There is so little interiority to her character that there is never a sense that she is a real person living this experience; she is transparently a thriller protagonist bumbling around chasing clues, and she does an agonizingly terrible job at it. Every time a character starts to reveal something and then realizes they’ve said too much, Rose lets it go — quite the impressive regard for boundaries, given the fact that when she isn’t walking away from people mid-conversation, she’s asking everyone and their mother impertinent questions that go nowhere. This is, quite literally, the entire book. The fuckery is, of course, eventually unearthed, and yes, it was indeed the most obvious explanation that you guessed by page 50, but anyway, what happens at this point in the book? Rose actually takes the fate of her students into her own hands? She allies with someone to bring about systemic change? She realizes resistance is futile and makes a plan to get the hell out of Dodge? No, she basically just… asks more questions. More specific questions, this time around, to be fair to her.Anyway, I mentioned briefly that Rose is a Classics teacher, so let’s go back to that. Having been raised by a second-wave feminist, Rose has internalized a lot of her mother’s values (she wouldn’t go as far as to call herself a feminist though, heaven forfend! Sidebar: I’m not sure that in 2021 we still need novels that spoon-feed feminist ideology to the reader by adding a spoonful of sugar to the medicine, holding our hand and reassuring us that “women are people too” isn’t a radical, scary notion, but… Phoebe Wynne disagrees, I guess). Anyway, Rose is drawn to female characters and historical figures from Greek and Roman mythology and history, and spotlights a handful of them — Antigone, Dido, Medea, Lucretia, et al. — in her classes. The integration of classics into this novel is so ham-fisted, so unsubtle, so unnecessary, it bears asking why it had to be the classics at all. The Secret History (a very different project with very different aims that I am not attempting to compare to Madam on a deeper level, to be clear) would not be The Secret History if it were about a group of chemical engineering students — the classics are so integral to that novel’s themes and framework that it would crumble without that element. If We Were Villains would not be If We Were Villains if the students were studying Jane Austen instead of Shakespeare. This isn’t a criticism; it shows how deliberately constructed those novels are. In Madam, the classics are merely an arbitrary addition that could have been substituted with impactful women from any period of literature or history and netted the exact same result: a half-baked commentary on how History Has Not Been Kind To Women.Aside from being thematically careless, this book was just poorly written on a sentence-by-sentence level. Inexplicably, most scenes are recounted in the pluperfect tense: “Earlier that morning she’d knotted her unruly hair into a thick plait[…]” “Rose had gazed at the delightful picture they all made, touching her own blazer with a tinge of shame.”“She’d stopped by Anthony’s office on Friday to see if he wanted to go for a walk together over the weekend.” Why? Why are we being narrated scenes that already happened rather than just… being shown those scenes? The whole thing takes on a very tell-don’t-show style, which I believe can work in certain circumstances, but this ain’t it. Also, the details in this book are all in the wrong places. It’s set at a boarding school, and the school itself is barely described — we are usually up to date on the state of Rose’s hair, though. I also think it should be a cardinal sin for a book to start with a journey (in this case: Rose on the train to Caldonbrae), end the chapter when they arrive, and start the following chapter the next morning. We don’t see Rose settling into her flat, we don’t see her walking around the school, we don’t see any of it. The exposition is just terrible. Characters are also introduced at such a lightning speed that I couldn’t keep track of who anyone was and I had no sense of how many students or teachers were at this school.Changing gears now: as other reviewers have noted, the white saviorism and the tokenistic portrayal of a group of Japanese students is downright shameful. Diversity does not need to serve a narrative function, and indeed, it’s often better when it does not, especially in the hands of a white author writing about non-white characters. Here, the function is both extant and obvious: it’s to illustrate by comparison how progressive Rose is. And I quote: “The general spread of white faces made Rose uncomfortable despite the small handful of Asian girls, who seemed to group together. This lack of diversity leaked across the staff, too — not at all appropriate or modern for the nineties, she thought.” Speaking of diversity and representation, I’m not sure why some people are calling this book queer? It’s not. There is one (1) lesbian character, not the protagonist, and she’s a self-loathing alcoholic, so… not sure why that’s something to celebrate, but whatever.Anyway, back to the above quote, gross depiction of Japanese students aside — this book is set in the 1990s. That sweet spot for dark academia novels, where authors have the convenience of writing virtually about the present-day, but where the characters don’t have cell phones and laptops which would destroy both the atmosphere and undermine the characters’ work at solving the mystery. That’s all fine and well, but if you take out all the references to Queen and Batman Begins, this book feels like something out of the 1800s. You will hear no disputes from me about the fact that misogyny is alive and well and that certain individuals and institutions hold antiquated values, but those conservative values are satirized to such an extreme here that they start to feel utterly absurd. And the problem is that this book is not trying to be satire. I’m supposed to take it at face value, even when it’s pushing my suspension of disbelief further and further past its breaking point.Which brings us to The Fuckery. As discussed, I found it very obvious, but that is honestly the least of my damn concerns. The details here were just… so, so ridiculous, trying so hard to be provocative. The “Worship” scene (if you know you know) is the most unintentionally funny thing I have read in my entire life. This was supposed to be a horrifying scene and I just couldn’t stop laughing at the fact that someone actually greenlit this garbage. I could practically see Phoebe Wynne rubbing her hands together in glee for having shocked the reader with something so DARING and TABOO when it actually just served to undermine the impact of whatever psychological abuse was going on here by turning the whole thing into a dark, fucked up cartoonish pantomime. This was just an incoherent, poorly-constructed project that had no ardor, no artistic integrity, and no intrigue. It was bizarrely terrible and did not have a single redeeming quality and it made me feel cynical about my profession (I’m an editor) and if you take anything from this review let it be this: read literally any other book! Please! I don’t care how good the summary is! I suffered so you don’t have to!!!Thank you to Netgalley and St. Martin’s Press for the advanced copy provided in exchange for an honest review.
3907509643	Caldonbrae was less of a school, and more of an elite institution containing its own churning practices, a forever fortess turning within itself. Madam is such a beautifully atmospheric book, and it's one of my favourite things about it. The oppressive gloom of Caldonbrae Hall perching high on the cliffs above the grey sea, the bleak Scottish coastline flanking the school, the ghostly haar fogs and torrential sheets of near-constant wind and rain . . . it's a perfect setting for this female-focused dark academia-esque novel. Set at an elite all-girls boarding school, what seems like an excellent opportunity for a young Classics teacher soon becomes a nightmare as she realises the school's true purpose is training girls to be excellent wives rather than aspiring minds. Despite being set in 1993 and featuring references to significant figures such as Princess Diana, the school is largely closed off from outside society and influence to further Caldonbrae's ideology of an 'ideal woman'. Forget feminism and suffragettes; Caldonbrae's version of feminity is more aligned with everything from before the twentieth century. Some people may find it rather unrealistic, but honestly I wouldn't be entirely unsurprised if some bizarre upper-class undercover operation like this did come to light. Either way, I found it a compelling read. The pacing is on the slower side, but I liked the slow unwind. Women from the Classics are also vital in this story. From Medea to Medusa, their tales weave an undercurrent of defiance and possibility into students whose only prior purpose was to train themselves into perfection for a future husband. This defiance is most clear in the fourth years Rose teaches (especially Freddy, Nessa and Daisy), and they were the characters I was most fond of as a result. On the whole, it was a book I very much enjoyed bar a few bits. There are a handful of LGBTQ+ characters (only one clearly labelled on-page, the rest only vaguely referred to), but I wasn't really fond of how any of them were handled. There's a lot of potential within the setting of all-female boarding schools to explore the full extent of complex female relationships, but Madam doesn't go into this. I think another interesting angle for this story would've been through two sapphic students with a 'forbidden' relationship (unsurprisingly, Caldonbrae perpetuates the view that LGBTQ+ relationships and individuals are abnormal).A very small part of Madam tentatively examines the quiet exile of a small cohort of Japanese students in this incredibly white school with incredibly imperialist attitudes. In one scene, geishas are brought in to educate the Japanese students and the heroine conflates being a geisha with being a prostitute - it's a misunderstanding, perhaps, due to Western narratives perpetuating falsehoods about geishas, but it rubbed me the wrong way. However the wider inclusion of the Japanese students and the fact that the inherently white and classist setting of private English schools like Caldonbrae is somewhat examined in Madam is interesting. I wish it had been explored in further depth, but perhaps this would've been spreading the story too thin. But for anyone wanting a critique of academic institutions and how their history is rooted in colonialism, R.F. Kuang's Babel is worth a look. Overall, I thought it was a strong debut and I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys dark academia with a female focus such as The Furies or Plain Bad Heroines. Phoebe Wynne writes beautifully and crafts such an atmosphere, so depending what their next project is, I'll likely pick it up. > 4/4.2 starsThank you to the publisher for providing me with a review copy in exchange for an honest review!also so random but the author is the aunt of actor roman griffin davies from jojo rabbit*Did someone say . . . - female-focused dark academia?- for fans of The Secret History and Rebecca?- set at a boarding school in Scotland?
3951129105	A gothic boarding school tale that falls flatRose Christie is nervous but excited when she's hired on as the new Head of Classics at Caldonbrae Hall, a boarding school for girls in Scotland. A renowned establishment for 150 years, Caldonbrae is a far step above Rose's current teaching gig and will offer a chance to help her mother, who is struggling with MS. Rose is the first external hire in over a decade, making her an immediate outsider, along with her youthful age. She quickly feels over her head at Caldonbrae, where the teachers and students alike seem to lord over her. But soon Rose realizes that everyone seems to be on to a secret, except her. Why did the last Classics teacher, Jane, leave so suddenly? As Rose learns more about Caldonbrae, she quickly realizes it is nothing like she expected. "One way or another someone was going to get eaten alive here, Rose realized. She'd be damned if it was her." I'm a sucker for boarding school stories, but this one did not live up to the promised hype for me. It grew on me a small bit by the end, but when I say this is a slow burning tale, I mean SLOW. I was incredibly tempted to "DNF" this book, but stuck with it, skimming or fast reading portions of it. The big twist, so to speak, doesn't come until halfway through (55% in fact). At that point, we have sat through lots of classics lessons and pontificating about Caldonbrae and gotten to know a lot of girls at the school.Although, "getting to know" is probably generous, as there's a lack of character development throughout most of MADAM. There are a variety of girls at Caldonbrae thrust upon us, but I found it nearly impossible to keep many of them straight. (It doesn't help that the UK version of schooling is hard to follow, with thirds, fourths, and more tossed about, but rarely ages. Woe to us idiotic Americans!)We know little about Rose, are offered a scarce backstory, and pieces about her father that are supposed to form her personality seem tossed in haphazardly. Instead she drove me crazy with her dithering and inability to make decisions. Most of the time I just wanted to shake her. She was in an impossible situation, perhaps, but she seemed unable to grasp anything for much of the book, or realize the seriousness of her circumstances. I think MADAM was going for ominous and creepy--everything building up to its explosive ending (which is hinted at in the beginning pages), but it falls short. Instead, it seems more annoying and perplexing. When the twist is revealed, it's an interesting one, yes, but I couldn't help but question it, wonder how such a thing could be sustainable. MADAM just couldn't keep up the eerie tone it was trying for. There's definite storytelling potential here, and I did find myself somewhat attached to a few of the girls by the end, when things pick up slightly. MADAM tries to align the classics (think tales of Medea and Antigone and such) with its boarding school girls, but often the tacked on tales of these mythical and classical women feel like unnecessary, added on pieces. It reaches too high, trying for a feminist angle, but falls short, with a fast ending that cannot possibly live up to all those classical, high-reaching aims. "...she wondered how an establishment that promised to educate 'girls of the world' could somehow make its women feel so small." Overall, there's a lot going on in MADAM, but it just didn't gel for me. I couldn't root for Rose for most of the novel, and the classic pieces inserted into the plot didn't work. There were sparks I enjoyed, but overall, this wasn't a favorite. 2.5 stars. I received a copy of this novel from St. Martin's Press and Netgalley in return for an unbiased review. Blog ~ Twitter ~ Facebook ~ Instagram ~ PaperBackSwap ~ Smashbomb
3634513068	A brooding boarding school in Scotland, a teacher who left under circumstances no one seems willing to discuss and students who know more than they are letting on. I couldn’t resist reading it. According to the publisher this novel contains “shades of The Secret History, The Stepford Wives and a dash of Circe.” Well, yes and no. There is a small group of students studying the classics at an elite school. So, there’s that but the teacher is in over her head, the students are less than willing scholars and the only dash of Circe is that the stories of Agrippina, Dido, Antigone, Medusa etc. are taught. I’ll concede to “riveting, modern gothic” because it certainly kept my attention. Bestseller potential.
3589128051	This was neither the best nor the worst book I have ever read. It’s a story about a teacher (rose)at a prestigious private all girls school. All the teachers are referred to as Madam, which can be quite confusing. Rose teaches the girls about Greek goddesses in an attempt to instill power and self-sufficiency into them. Although the school is quite odd, it gets even more odd when Rose finds out the school is just preparing the young women to be wives. This makes some of the classes very absurd. Each chapter starts with some Greek mythology, which reminded me of the book The Maidens.
3599925216	Imagine if Donna Tartt and Margaret Atwood got together to write a creepy, suspenseful novel about a school for young women in the Scottish Highlands. The result is Madam, a book I couldn't for the life of me put down. Brooding and unsettling, Wynne paints a gorgeous picture that only serves to camouflage the dark secrets she's hidden within.
6303895889	3.5 stars!I listened to the audiobook and I can assure you it's an experience far superior to reading the physical book. There is a large cast of characters--the staff and all the students--as well as Scottish groundskeepers with accents, trust me--you do not want to miss this and muddle your way through on your own. The narrator does a great job giving all the characters their own voice and personality. There are classic Greek mythology lessons at the beginning of the chapters which I think I would be tempted to skip or skim if I were reading the book--just be totally transparent, but the narrator did an excellent job giving these sections their own flare and importance--making sure to emphasize the foreshadowing in the following chapter.Madam is very Gothic, feminist Gothic, but it isn't paranormal or supernatural. The horrors of this boarding school are in its secretive and private practices, all of which will come to light. I enjoyed sipping my tea and munching popcorn throughout all the drama between the students and staff. Quite seductive, utterly scandalous, and I did not see certain things coming...Recommended for readers who love-Dark Academia-Boarding Schools for Girls-New Teacher/Student drama-Secrets & Lies-Feminism-Greek Mythology-LBGTQ-Secret Societies-Strong Female Protagonists
4016128683	I had a feeling I’d enjoy this book but I had no idea that I’d love it so much that it would become a contender for my favourite book of the year! It might be classified as a slow burn in true gothic mystery fashion but it was absolutely riveting and I never felt like I wanted the pace to pick up, a slow burn was perfect for this story. I was hooked from start to finish and I couldn’t put the book down, I had a deep burning desire to find out how it would turn out. I really couldn’t have loved this book more, it had everything I love in a horror novel and heaps more. I think the perfect way to describe this book is Stepford Wives meets Catherine House and if that doesn’t make you want to pick up this book and devour it then I don’t know what will!
4065110332	Rounded down from around 3.5 Stars Madam follows Rose, the new classics teacher at a mysterious and foreboding boarding school. Tradition, class and secrets run rampant throughout the school. Nothing is as it seems, and the power the school holds over Rose's life is more than she could have ever expected.I absolutely loved the setting of this novel. The boarding school in the wilds of Scotland felt deeply disturbing and was a perfect back drop for a thriller. I found myself speeding through the first section of the book, I just could not get enough of the creepy setting. I also really enjoyed the parts involving Greek mythology. What I know about Greek mythology is from primary school, so I really learnt a lot from this book. Unfortunately, the book fell slightly flat for me after this. There were definitely parts that I enjoyed, but I found it hard to connect to the characters, especially Rose. Rose just wasn't the heroine I was looking for, she left me feeling frustrated and confused. At times things felt a little repetitive too, Rose would gain strength to fight the powers that be, and then would submit again. That being said, I think this was a great debut novel by and I will be keeping my eyes out for more from Phoebe Wynne. I feel the ending could have been setting up a sequel, which I would definitely read, especially if it was set in another boarding school!! I want to thank NetGalley, the publishers and author for allowing me to read this novel and give my personal thoughts. I would recommend this book to thriller fans who want a different setting, especially those with an underlying interest in mythology.
4250085167	This has Catherine House vibes.It’s eerie and you’re not sure why. Everyone’s in on it and you’re the only one in the dark. It’s claustrophobic and suspenseful. You’re trying to connect dots but then you wish you hadn’t. I really enjoyed this. I’m not sure why it has gotten such mixed reviews.
3584814403	Madam by Phoebe Wynne is a gothic historical mystery/thriller set in a boarding school on the Scottish cliffs. Of course with my love of creepy boarding school thrillers I thought I would love this one but unfortunately as the saying goes we can’t love them all. Rose Christie is the first new teacher hired at the elite Caldonbrae Hall in over a decade. At 26 years old Rose is proud to be the new head of the classics department but stepping into the halls of Caldonbrae Hall Rose quickly begins to see not all is as it seems inside Caldonbrae Hall.Picking up Madam I quickly started thinking that the story was not what I expected I was going to get and sometimes that is perfectly fine but not so much here. This book reminded me a lot of a young adult fantasy I read a few years back and I really enjoyed that one but this one seemed to take the same concept and make me dislike it. I really didn’t enjoy the characters in this and the story seemed to drag on with the dark material that was probably supposed to shock a reader actually just feeling dull and lifeless since I couldn’t get engrossed in this one.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
4163377817	I really enjoyed the atmosphere of this one - it is set at a creepy all girls boarding school in Scotland where things are *not as they seem* and I liked that there was an element of purposeful disorientation on the part of the author. That said, I think the delivery on the promise of the premise was not as strong as I would have liked, and I think the metaphor, while relevant, was rather on the nose. Still, this kept my interest and I think for a debut, this was pretty entertaining
3607126040	This book was done a great disservice on Netgalley by being categorized as women’s fiction. I almost passed it by, but gothic mystery grabbed my attention, especially with this being October and all and sure enough…definitely not women’s fiction. I mean, it’s written by a woman and features primarily all female cast, so maybe technically, but not in any way that matters. What this book is…is a work of feminist dystopian fiction, handmaids in boarding school. Because so much of feminist dystopias concentrate on reproduction rights, so usually features women, maybe of a certain age, this one takes it back to teens. Why not start early in the game and get every advantage. Why not shape the perfect wives of tomorrow today? That actually can be a slogan for Caldonbrae. An atmospherically forbidding old world boarding school establishment set in the atmospherically forbidding Scottish highlands. Remote, strict and dedicated to providing a very specific sort of education, Caldonbrae’s goal is to turn out the perfect wives for the man who can afford them, the upper echelons of society, etc. But, of course, it’s a discreet establishment that protects its secrets. So when our protagonist, a young teacher, gets offered a job there, it initially just seems too good to be real. Financial circumstances being what they are, dire, she has no choice but to accept the position and comes to live and teach the challenging difficult girls there and then slowly she uncovers the truth of the place and once she knows it, has to decide whether it’s something she can possibly tolerate or something to rebel against. You know it’ll go somewhat incendiary, because the novel starts with the fire. But you have to read it to find out the whys and hows and aftermaths. And this is why this book must not be dismissed as women’s fiction…it’s good and smart and alarming. It tackles ideas, not insipid romances or reproduction. It actively takes on The Stepford Wife scenario and goes to the source, goes wild with it, really. The best thing about this book is how effective it is in the warped logic and arguments behind the Caldonbrae’s ideology. The girls are systematically brainwashed into assuming traditional conservative roles the society has ascribed to them for centuries to such a degree that they don’t even think to question, mostly. It takes one outsider, one educator of Classics, to start a revolution of a sort, to ignite liberal thinking, to challenge the norms. The use of Classics is very clever here too, it showcases traditional female roles in history and mythology (so basically victims or whores or manipulators) and the tragic ends they came to and extends that thinking to the present day, a subject ideal for extrapolating, teaching, igniting fires. There’s a reason feminist dystopias are on a rise lately, the reason arguably the most famous of them all got a sequel last year after all this time, women’s rights (such as they are) are a relatively recent thing and seem to be constantly under attack and yes I am writing this as one of the world’s largest democracies currently contemplates revisiting abortion subject. Seriously. Why and how can this still be something to question in this day and age? This is supposed to be the future. So it’s all eerily timely and scary and important to read about, to talk about. This book definitely brings something new to that table. It’s original, well written and oh so dark, especially the ending. Definitely a worthy read. Recommended. Thanks Netgalley.
4268361082	Actual Rating: 4.5 starsWhile this book isn't perfect, I had a hell of a good time reading it! It's very much my kind of book. A feminist gothic thriller with a creepy boarding school and dark secrets. Yes, yes, yes. I loved it. Is it a bit on the nose thematically? Yeah. Might some readers find the main character frustrating or unlikeable? Definitely. Did I have a pretty good idea of where the book was going from early on? Yep. But did any of that affect my enjoyment of the reading experience? No, it decidedly did not! This might not be the right book for everyone but I'm very glad I picked it up. It's a book about the patriarchy, power, and privilege. It also uses stories from the Greek classics for emphasis. What is consent and how do we make difficult choices? I really enjoyed it. I will say, reviewers who point out that this doesn't do a great job trying to address the racism in the school have a point. Things like that do feel like a first novel that is trying to talk about how white supremacy is very real issue in the UK, especially among elites, but doesn't execute on it very well. Note that there are content warnings for abuse and pedophilia. I get why people might not like this, but one thing I do want to address is this being set in the 90's. People don't find it believable. Here's the thing, I agree that something so extreme wouldn't really exist BUT the issues explored her are still alive and well among the upper classes today, so I'm not sure it's as wild as everyone is saying.
3660942250	A chilling, gothic, feminist tale of just what could be going on behind the closed doors of elite boarding schools. The horror built with relentless pace. I devoured this book.
3917995627	2.5 stars I was so excited to read this novel, but I mostly ended up becoming frustrated with it. The reader is introduced to Rose Christie who has recently been hired to teach Latin at the prestigious and highly exclusive boarding school, Caldonbrae Hall in Scotland. Rose soon discovers that in addition to the school being extremely elitist, it is just as outdated and more nefarious than she ever could have anticipated. She finds out that female teachers are addressed as “Madam” and all male teachers are “Sir.” Rose also learns that the students practically have no academic ambitions simply because they are busy. Thrown into this strange environment, Rose slowly uncovers the repulsive truth behind the hailed walls of Caldonbrae Hall. I studied Classical Languages at university, so I loved that aspect in this novel. I had fun translating the Latin passages and reading about women in the Roman Empire, both real and mythological. The Roman stories told preceded coming relevant scenes in the book, so I appreciated that part. I enjoyed the discussions Rose had with her students and how these stories made them confront their own views and indoctrination. I kept waiting for Rose to take action throughout and wondered how she didn’t seem to question the problematic behaviour of her romantic interest until it is literally staring her in the face. I also thought it was weird how Rose was so fixated on these young girls bodies almost as much as her male colleagues. She had frequent thoughts about their chests and bodices. Just strange. Even though I had issues with this book it was propulsive and while I predicted the ending, it did seem fitting. Thanks Netgalley for a digital ARC in exchange for my honest opinions.
3635337815	Special thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for a free, electronic ARC of this novel received in exchange for an honest review. Expected publication date: May 18, 2021 Caldonbrae Hall has stood sentry on the cliffs of Scotland and for 150 years it has served as the most prestigious and elite boarding school in the country. When young and inexperienced Rose Christie is given the oppourtunity to work at Caldonbrae, she jumps at the chance. Working at such an elite school has its advantages, as Rose discovers, when her ailing mother’s nursing care is provided for by the school’s administration and all Rose has to do is commit to teaching at Caldronbrae. But as the year goes on, Rose begins to see the darker side to Caldronbrae, and its real purpose for the female students within its walls. However, Rose also knows the danger that comes from speaking out, to both herself and her mother, after hearing whispers about what happened to the teacher who came before her. Will Rose risk everything to save her students from their future? “Madam” is the debut title by author, Phoebe Wynne. Set high atop the cliffs of Scotland, Caldonbrae Hall immediately brings a sense of foreboding and secrecy, all told through Wynne’s descriptive language. The plot is well-developed, and the novel itself has a good flow. I immediately connected with Rose and wanted her to succeed, rooting for her as she battles the “establishment”. This novel takes place in the 90s although I feel that the time frame does not suit the story. “Madam” reads more as a 1960s or 70s story with the limited technology and feminist ideals of that time. I felt a real disconnect to the time period, and taking place in the 90s really did not seem to have any important distinction in the novel (the setting is so secluded, that the story could have taken place in any time period) . Going in, I wanted a paranormal or spooky factor hiding behind the walls of Caldonbrae. I expected ghosts, or secrets long-dead, or even some out-there science-fiction component, but what I did not expect was the dark feminist tale that I got in “Madam”. I enjoyed most of the characters and I definitely enjoyed the Scotland setting, although the boarding school component is certainly not a unique concept. This novel had a little bit of a "Mona Lisa Smile” aspect to it (which is not a bad thing) , mixed with “The Stepford Wives”. Well-written (especially for a debut author) with some rallying feminism and powerful characters, “Madam” is an enjoyable, yet dark, tale. And that ending? Holy cow. Well done, Wynne! I am intrigued.
5023443928	2 stars--meh. Interesting idea but poor execution. Rose, the main character, annoyed me with her passivity. Characters acted and spoke in a manner that didn't feel realistic. I should have believed the other reviews of this one.
3810627924	** spoiler alert ** THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS. PLEASE DO NOT READ ON IF YOU DO NOT WANT TO SEE SPOILERS.As soon as I saw the comparisons to The Secret History and Stepford Wives, I knew I wanted to read this book. Especially when you add in the location - an all girls' boarding school set in rural Scotland. I was imagining a dark creepy tale, full of sinister intrigue. However, the reality was nothing like what I expected, and I was left disappointed. SPOILERS AHEAD. FINAL WARNING.Basically, the mystery is that the school is grooming young girls. They are trained to please, and brainwashed into thinking that this is what they want. Rose finds out, doesn't really do much, and then 3 kids save the day. Now, let me summarise the issues with this book:1. Disturbing and needlessly salacious depictions of paedophilia. There's two scenes in particular which spring to mind, neither of which needed to be half as graphic as they were. I don't need to read a description of young girls being taught to give oral to an old man. It didn't add anything to the story, and if anything just served to highlight how awful the writing and the characters were, given that Rose's response to such a sight was to stammer and stutter and then leave the room. Did she then do anything at all about it? No, of course not. There was no benefit to adding this scene, other than to shock the reader and make the book seem 'controversial', in an attempt to make up for the complete lack of anything else interesting going on. 2. The racist way in which the author depicts her 'Asian/Japanese' characters was just gross. They alternate between being called Asian and Japanese, depending on whether the author wants to make a Geisha comparison or not at the time - yes of course they were being taught to be 'sexy geishas' for men, of course the author didn't do the bare minimum of research required to realise that this is an incredibly racist comparison to make, she just wanted to include non-white characters to tick another box on the work feminist checklist. And of course they all talk in the stereotypical broken English often used by completely misinformed and small minded authors who want to show how 'woke' they are by throwing in a minority character, without actually doing any research or putting any effort into making them a character in their own right. 3. Rose herself. She's useless. Completely one dimensional, boring, and even once she FINALLY realises what's going on, she does sod all to actually help. Yeah she calls the teachers out on it, but doesn't actually do anything. It's left up to 15 year old girls to fix the problem themselves. Plus, her reaction to the abuse was so ignorant, and completely at odds with the feminist message the author was probably reaching for. While Rose briefly considers that the girls have all been abused, she still focuses her attention on the 'good girls', the girls most similar to her, and prioritises them as victims in her mind. Whereas the others are basically glossed over, and even when considering those she 'cares about', she still doesn't really do anything to help them or even show that she can see that they are experiencing intense trauma. Instead, it's all about how it makes Rose sad.4. The focus on classics, while interesting, felt to me like an attempt to bulk up the word count by adding in synopsis' of all of these classic feminist tales. Essentially, the author wanted the double whammy of adding to the word count and showing off how feminist she was. 5. The so-called feminism littered throughout the book was a perfect example of performative feminism, box ticking and forcing in outdated stereotypes, to the point where Rose's mum literally burned her bras. Yes, I know that that did happen in the 70s, but relying on stereotypes such as these is just bad writing. 6. The writing was just bad. The dialogue was stilted and awkward, and there was so much telling not showing it was unreal. I understand wanting to create a tone of creeping horror, but you do that through good writing, not telling me that I should be creeped out. If you're a good writer, I don't need you to signpost what I should be noticing and feeling. Plus, I may be being fussy but personally I got so sick of the word Rose I now can't look at the flowers in my garden without wincing (would it have killed the author to say she instead of Rose on occasion? There's basically no other characters of interest so it's not like we'd confuse them. The continual 'Rose did this, Rose said that, Rose frowned, Rose blinked' left me wanting to kill Rose just to end my torment). All in all, this is honestly one of the worst book I've read in a long time. Poor writing, badly plotted, stereotypical box-ticking depictions of feminism, racist depictions of characters from a non-white background, a weak and boring main character, all other characters being completely one dimensional, no real resolution to the events of the plot, poor editing (Rose, Rose, Rose...) and just overall an awful and depressing book. Definitely one I would not recommend. Disclaimer - I was fortunate enough to be provided with an advance reading copy of this book by NetGalley. This has not affected my review in any way, and all opinions are my own.
4059907964	Madam, a story about a young and naive teacher joining an elite boarding school and slowly coming to realise theres another agenda hidden behind the facade of academia, is an easy read but ultimately doesn't really live up to its promise.I think my main issue with this story was the passive inaction of main character Rose for the majority of the book. The girls at the school are oh so weird, the teachers dismissive and constantly signalling dark doings, the school itself is an oddly incoherent setting - Rose however, despite being treated like complete crap from day one, having an obviously mentally ill student accusing her of horrible things, having her name plastered about as a possible abuser, the school sneaking her mother off into a home and insisting she give them power of attorney (all quite early on) she creeps about the place trying to please everyone. Occasionally having oh this isnt quite right is it type feelings she still creeps along to her doom with the type of passive aggressive placate all attitude that drives me nuts.In my head I spent most of this read sending "you stupid woman" signals silently into the pages and when all is revealed I was a bit rolly eyed. All the secrecy and threats made no sense given the fact that the secret revealed is something that actually happens to different degrees quite openly.Pretty sure I'm supposed to be outraged and disturbed but actually all that came out of me at the end was my own passive aggressive "Meh"
4241666517	I LOVED THIS.Gothic thriller with a dash of queer and truly fuckedness really just tickled my tastebuds on this one.
4815290036	3.5 stars. a good concept and i liked the gothic vibes, but none of the characters (including, frustratingly, the main one) really stood out to me and the pacing was not great.
3694998007	Rose Christie, a 26-year old Classics teacher, gets a job at Caldonbrae, an exclusive girls-only boarding school in a remote windswept coastal area of Scotland. Her excitement at this new challenge soon turns to dismay when she realizes that, at this elite establishment, not all is what it seems. The conservative mentality of the teachers and students is a culture shock for independent-minded Rose. However, this is just the start of her problems. There seem to be more sinister – and dangerous – secrets related to the departure of her predecessor. The more facts Rose uncovers, the greater her conviction that she should escape Caldonbrae. But considering the long-reaching tentacles of the institution, does she even have such a choice?Phoebe Wynne’s debut novel is touted as a feminist Gothic work, with “shades of The Secret History”. This is what drew me to it in the first place, but I am sorry to say that I was quite disappointed, and it took some effort for me to complete the book. For a novel set in 1992, the facts described in the book are quite over-the-top (even though, admittedly, chauvinistic mentalities are still rampant thirty years later). So, perhaps, Madam is best approached as a fable or fantasy – not unlike the Dyachenko’s Vita Nostra, but with a more feminist slant and without the more abstruse fantastical elements. Even if one is fine with that, though, the story remains unconvincing and the dialogue and narrative style not particularly striking or original. The characters seem stilted and, for a feminist lead, Rose often comes across as rather pathetic. She spends most of the book going around asking questions and getting no answers – at one point, her students actually tell her “…stop asking us questions, it’s so frustrating” and it’s a feeling which, as a reader, I fully shared.Despite my reservations I did find something to enjoy in the novel. The suffocating sense of dread was well brought out, the Gothic elements were suitably atmospheric and I liked the idea of the notes or summaries about women from Classical history and myth and the way their stories were worked into the tale. For fairness’ sake, I should also note that some reviewers have compared Phoebe Wynne to such luminaries as Naomi Alderman and Margaret Attwood. I must confess I’m less enthusiastic.https://endsoftheword.blogspot.com/20...
4236581343	I am a bit disappointed. This was not at all what I hoped it would be and the ending was such a let down. The writing wasn't bad, but none of the characters gripped me and I found myself simply not caring at all. This book is Monday morning and I am a bit bummed about it.
4379162828	The premise of this book sounded like a promising dark academia novel with an atmospheric setting, the later was the only thing that turned out to be true. As you become more and more of aware of what is happening in this book, the plot becomes more and more frustrating. The main character is totally flat and passive, and incredibly frustrating. The crux of the plot is deliberately frustrating, but had a very unsatisfying conclusion that made it all very much not worthwhile. Overall, really disappointing, I only kept going out of intrigue to see how it ended and I’m not quite sure it was worth it.
4009058952	In 'Madam', Rose Christie arrives at a renowned girls' boarding school to replace a Classics teacher who has just left. She is shocked to learn that she is the first hire in about a decade. Teachers, it seems, just don't leave. Except her predecessor did, under very suspicious circumstances, and the minute the old teacher is mentioned, the intrigue begins. Another curious thing about Rose's new gig is that though it is the 90s, the girls are strangely old-fashioned in their dress, speech and obvious lack of curiosity about the world. Though Rose remains bewildered by this for a long, long, long time, within a few chapters, the reader will easily figure out the secret of Caldonbrae Hall, also known as "Hope". That didn't trouble me so much. What did was that with gothic novels, though lush language and atmosphere are part of the lure, you also want textured, complicated characters; villains with a clear motivation to their villainy, and for it all to end in an extraordinary crescendo. With this book, I did not get any of that. The heroine, ostensibly a plucky young woman raised by a feminist mother, from page one is a little bit of a shrinking violet. When we first meet her, she is shrinking under the criticism of her difficult mother, which sets up a never-to-be-explained-or-resolved interesting interpersonal dynamic. And later, at Caldonbrae when Rose discovers the most shocking things about the place where she has come to teach, her responses are, variedly, to cry, have a public tantrum, withdraw in silence and to attempt a series of small, ineffectual rebellions that only worsen her situation because she knows (as the reader does) that they are doomed to fail.My other quibble was the arc of the novel. Up to about 85% in, the heroine is still finding herself shocked anew by each new discovery, even though she has already been clued in to the nature of the place. She is still crying, 'Why?', 'How could you?' 'Who would endure this?' All the while, she teaches the Caldonbrae girls about heroic and complicated women in history and mythology and extolls their bravery, yet displays none of her own. It felt like the author got a little lost in her novel concept, and spent much too much of the book proving that concept relevant and current, and very little time developing the story to wrap around that concept. The concept is interesting and basically that **SPOILERS AHEAD**there is a vast network of influential men who want women trained and be proper wives--schooled in hostessing and conversation and sex, but not challenging the patriarchy with things like ... independent thought, or lesbianism. That this network is so committed to maintaining a certain kind of society that they choose their wives from, and send their daughters to Caldonbrae to train new crops of compliant women is just close enough to what we know of the upper classes to not seem too farfetched; it's close enough to reality to live in the realm of, 'okay, this could totally happen.'Since this novel is set in the nineties, what the author just could not overcome for me was the absence of an explanation for why Caldonbrae would not simply chuck the recalcitrant "Madam" Rose out into the street since she so early demonstrated that she wasn't going to work out. And as time went on, the more trouble she became, the more determined they seemed to keep her there as a teacher. It didn't make sense. The idea that they were a network so strong and well-connected (including heads of state, government ministers, titans of industry!) that they could do some of the outrageous things they did with impunity ... and yet couldn't find a way to make Rose leave and keep her mouth shut just didn't make sense. Hell, your average celebrity is able to do that, managing to get people to shut up about all manner of crimes and misdemeanors. You just can't build a solid mystery suspense novel around a problem for which there is an immediately available and obvious solution. You just can't. So, for me, while the writing itself was good, plot and characters left something to be desired. This was a hard one to rate so low, because I really, really wanted to love it. And the ending? It just felt like the author ran out of things for the protagonist to be shocked about and rather than resolve anything, just ... ended it. But worst of all, it doesn't end because the protagonist exercises any agency (nope, no girl power moment) but because of something someone else does.Audiobook note: Great on the accents, but a little overly dramatic at points. And the narration revealed an excessive use of dialogue tags like "cried" "wept" "hissed" and the like.
3732679317	I usually shy away from reviewing books that I have really not enjoyed, but in the spirit of balance, and my credibility as a blogger, I couldn’t go without putting Madam in my round up. I eventually made it through the whole book with a fair few stops and starts, and wanted a second opinion, so saying nothing about its contents, I passed it on to Mama Raven for a little look see. Mama Raven unceremoniously tossed it at page 100 with a few choice words. A picture is emerging isn’t it? First of all this is being compared with Rebecca and The Handmaid’s Tale, two of the finest books in the canon of world literature. It’s also being touted as marvelously Gothic fiction. Um. No. The writing is simplistic and cliched, and the plot overly gratuitous probably in an effort to shock and stand out and tick off a few political correctness boxes. The main character is weak, the other characters are pretty one dimensional, and the book is about 50 pages too long. I did enjoy the little inserts about the classical female figures and their fates at the hands of horrible men and gods, but even this was not enough to change my overall opinion of the book. A boarding school drama that left me, well, bored. Disappointing…
3733224020	Rose Christie starts works at Calonbrae Hall, a boarding school for privileged girls that come from wealthy and influential families. The school has been going for years and is located in a remote part of Scotland. She is employed as the head of classics and cannot believe her luck at being recommended for the job.Rose soon realises that maybe this is not her dream job after all. The pupils are reluctant to learn and education seems to be on the back burner for these elite girls. The male teaches are called Sir and the female teachers Madam . Rose has her own ideals on how to teach ,but this traditional school wants to bend her to their shape and make her like all the other teachers. What did happened to her predecessor and why does nobody talk about her? A riveting book that held my attention. I loved the classic stories that Rose taught and looked forward to their extracts. Loved how the stories contained strong female characters, where the school is churning out mild, disciplined young ladies preparing them to be the perfect wives!!A riveting debut book that’s beautifully written. Thank you to Netgalley for my copy in exchange for a review.
4214172744	** spoiler alert ** I gave this three stars because I read it to the end and I wanted to see how it finished but I can’t say I enjoyed it. It has great atmosphere but builds so slowly and I think it’s too long. The story itself is a confusing one. Rose, is the main character and it’s set in the early 90s. A young teacher she gets a job as the head of classics at a very elite girls boarding school, Caldonbrae Hall. From the start it’s clear there’s more going on than academic education. The whole place seems to be in a time warp, holding up values from at least a century earlier down to the girls clothing. And the teachers are called Sir or Madam, no names are used. Then for me it becomes totally illogical. I get the concept (the upper classes and other powerful men want to use their daughters marriages for alliance, more power and wealth of course) but do they really want their wives and daughters to be subservient handmaidens? It all made little sense to me.
4068314499	I enjoyed the gothic feel of this book and found it quite surprising. I spent much of the novel wondering what on Earth was going on- in a good way- and some of the revelations were really quite dark. Many thanks to Netgalley for an arc of this book.
4280410921	Really enjoyed this one! 🖤
3706749439	the fact that it took me over two months to finish reading this should say everything, but for the record, this was absolutely one of the worst books i’ve ever read.
3602007968	Madam is about a young teacher, Rose, who takes a position teaching Classics at an elusive yet elite girls boarding school in Scotland. As Rose starts her employment, she begins noticing that things are “off”. For instance, all female teachers are referred to as Madam at the school rather than using names. She also has a difficult time getting her students to listen or care about her course, despite the risqué material she presents each class. She is repeatedly told by her students that there is no point in learning. Hmmm...As I started this book, I was sucked in, curious, wanting to know more...As the plot progressed, it became evident that Greek mythology was weaved into the narrative as symbolism. This classic literature, taught by Rose to her students, typically involved scorned and abused women who used violence and destruction to regain their sense of empowerment. I thought it was successful as a lead up for what was to come, but also distracted from the story at hand. It felt disconnected. The plot was unexpectedly dark, and at times, repulsive, as it delved into heavy themes. But again, these themes felt disjointed and out of place, detracting from the story rather than adding to it.I also thought the pacing was way off. Much too slow and drawn out for my likes. The characters could have used way more colour and depth. They reminded me of cut out paper dolls, all the same. I kept confusing who was who.Although this book didn’t work for me, there are other higher reviews that I would encourage readers to check out. The audiobook narrator did a good job portraying a dark and foreboding atmosphere, which I think was the author’s intent.Thank you to MacMillan Audio, St. Martin’s Press and Netgalley for an advanced copy in exchange for an honest review.
4365722304	The Secret History x The Handmaid's Tale is such an accurate description of this book. The eeriness & uneasiness the story gives off is perfection. The pacing towards the end could've been a bit better, but I loved the way the book ended overall. Rose is such a bad bitch in this messed up, isolated, claustrophobic situation.
3654245562	I am a massive fan of books/ films about boarding schools, probably stemming from my days reading Enid Blyton's Mallory Towers novels! Oh, and Harry Potter of course.This was such an odd one, and I have to say it, extremely annoying to read. The characters with no backbone, the offensive ideals... I'm not sure what the author was trying to achieve, but I find it so hard to like a book where I'm huffing and puffing at it!After seeing the reviews, I'm glad I'm not the only one.
3766566423	Caldonbrae Hall is an elite Scottish Boarding school for girls. It promises to make the girls lucky enough to attend ready for society. 26 year old Rose is the first new hire in over a decade and is brought in to head up the Classics department. She finds that the school isn't all it appears to be on the surface. Some of their ways and traditions go against Rose's feminist beliefs. She struggles to reconcile her own personal ethics and standards with what the school dictates. Rose also discovers that her predecessor left under suspicious circumstances. OK, I was hoping to love this one but it wasn't quite for me. The setting was totally dark and gothic, being an old castle on the cliffs of Scotland. Rose was admirable for her firm beliefs in doing what is right for the girls. However, I feel as if the first 50-60% of the book was lot of Rose in the classroom or Rose talking about gods and goddesses. There wasn't that building of creeping WTF that I like in my gothic tales. Once we get past all that, the creepiness does start up. It was just a little too late for me. I like the concept but the execution didn't exactly work for me. What to listen to while reading...A Forest by The CureShe Sells Sanctuary by The CultUnder the Milky Way by The ChurchBlasphemous Rumors by Depeche ModeHappy House by Siouxsie and the BansheesLose It by AustraThank you to the publisher for the audio book.
3687258519	Rose isn't sure she's made the right choice in her new job; but once she's in the elite boarding school, there's no turning back.I received a free copy from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.Set in the early 90's, Rose is a Latin teacher who gets the chance to work at an elite girls boarding school set in Scotland. She has her doubts about working for the Upper Class, and why they hired a 25 year old woman with only 4 years teaching experience to be the new Head of Classics; but this is outweighed by her need to cover her mother's increasing medical bills.When she gets there, she's at a loss to all the traditions that Caldonbrae clings to so fiercely.As the first new member of staff in a decade, and easily the youngest; Rose finds it hard to get respect from students and teachers alike.Adding to her misery, is the mystery of why her predecessor left, and the previous Madam's favourite pupil, who is intent of being Rose's personal, spiteful ghost.For the first half of this book, I was convinced that I wasn't going to like it, and was hovering around 2 stars.I almost DNFed several times, but I'm glad I persevered.The first half is slow and repetitive, showing how restricted Rose's life is. She's in a remote part of Scotland, with the school located on it's own craggy island. It's cold and it's dark, and the only way she can get out is with permission of the Headmaster, and booking the use of the school cars.She finds little support amongst her colleagues, who mostly view her as some social experiment. And as this was before the internet and even mobiles, communication to the outside world is nearly non-existent.All Rose has is her lessons, trying to teach girls who treat her with condescension, as they know so much more about the school than the new Madam.The characters are all a blur of names and faces, all treating Rose the same. It was hard to keep track sometimes.The only one who stood out in the first half was Bethany. I thought the author did a good job at making the character very unlikeable, but you could still feel pity for her.In the second half of the book, I felt things really picked up.The truth behind the school is slowly revealed, and Rose starts to connect with those around her. She becomes personally invested in the lives of the girls and her friends; and she finds Caldonbrae tightening it's clutches, so she wonders if she will ever be free.I thought that the story became creepy and disturbing on many levels, and I was hooked, waiting to see how it all played out.I really liked the classic stories. I got definite "Mona Lisa Smiles" vibes, as Rose gets her students to engage in their work, and think for themselves.One group of students are quick to see that Rose is showing them the stories from the ancient women's point of view, and the sacrifices they made to make a difference on the world.The ending was shocking. At the time of reading, I loved it. I thought it was powerful, decisive and believable.Having had a few hours to think about it, the ending does make me feel somewhat queasy.I thought the second half really showed the author's strengths, and I would be interested in reading more of her work.
3896505932	*“Girls this age don’t need to have their own thoughts.”*“The girls are the prize…their parents are, after all, the client, and we the service.”*“(Rose) Please allow us to reeducate you.”What is consent? Is it consent if: you didn’t know there existed other ways to see or do things, yet you do as you are told and see nothing wrong with your circumstances; you do as you are told knowing it is hurting yourself and others. Are you complicit if you keep your head down while doing your best to help others? These are central to the gothic mystery Madam by Phoebe Wynne.Rose is a young, naïve teacher from London who becomes head of the classics department at Caldonbrae Hall, an all-girls boarding school set in a peninsula of Scotland. She sees herself as independent and intelligent, a product of her academic father and staunchly feminist mother. This position will give her the necessary means for her mother—who had Multiple Sclerosis—to receive proper care. She is both grateful and troubled by this, because the school has taken total control of her mother, and she is not consulted. Rose is not sure she is prepared for this, often wondering why they chose her, a public- school classics teacher of only six years. However, a fellow teacher assures her that she shouldn’t pass this up. This is a flaw in her character: she is susceptible to the opinions and directions of others. She wants to please and not cause waves. However, her ideals—influenced by the Greek and Roman poems and plays she teaches—cause her to question what she sees at the school, and change the way she has lived her life so far.Caldonbrae Hall—also known as Hope Hall, the last name of the man whose estate became this school—is not what Rose expects (is it ever?). The boarding houses are named after his daughters, who, in turn, are named after virtues: Temperance, Verity, Clemency, Chastity, Honor, and Prudence. In these houses, the female offspring of the rich and titled white families come to learn and practice the “Three main threads to the system”: Discipline, Study, and Value. However, the girls put little thought towards their studies because, as they are taught, their Value is of utmost importance. Rose finds that the inbred misogyny is not limited to the male faculty but also the female teachers and students. Soon, Rose finds herself isolated in her desire to teach and in the locked gates of the school.I found the author’s use of the stories of Lucrecia, Agrippina, Daphne, Media, Boudicca (my personal favorite historic woman), and Medusa both enjoyable and educational. Rose would present these to her class, and try to open up discussions about why these stories are important, and how they are just as relevant today. I knew nothing about many of these heroines of ancient Greece and Rome, and I now want to explore this genre. Each story brought an aspect of consent and dealing with adversity. For example, Agrippina is a lesson in getting ahead, and living/dying on your own terms; and Lucrecia teaches us about speaking up and taking control of one’s destiny. I highly recommend this book.*All quotes are from the book Madam by Phoebe WynneI would like to thank NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for the opportunity to read and review this book.
3638304294	I'm always a sucker for books set in schools and this one opens so oddly that I wasn't sure I was going to love it as much as I did! Rose accepts a teaching position at the prestigious private school even though she's much younger than most of the teachers there. All of them are addressed as either "Madam" or "Sir" and we know there are some pretty interesting and dark secrets being kept. And those secrets literally crept up on me in a chilling manner that had me gasping at the truths that are discovered. I honestly had no idea what was coming and I stayed up way too late to finish this one. It's electric!Thanks to NetGalley for this ARC!
3949562786	I was so disappointed by this, especially because I was so excited to read it. For me it just got a bit too ridiculous: with everything being a secret from Rose, even the children knowing more than she did, the ‘Worship’ classes and the rat in Josie’s hair. It could have been a really well executed piece but the theatrics got the better of Wynne. The Greek mythology side of the story seemed to lose its way in the middle and only really made any sense right at the end. Similarly, Rose got so annoying all she seemed to ever do was walk away from discussions and run around - even taking it out on the young girls who didn’t know any better. Likewise, the misogynistic points Wynne was trying to make just got too much to the point where it seemed she was being satirical rather than making a political point. And, I think she should have just stuck to misogyny the way she tried to bring race in as a side piece became problematic and unnecessary. I think the story in general would have benefited from being set further into history rather than the 90’s the slight references to Thatcher, Diana and Section 28 were clumsily thrown in to try and include context. Overall, extremely disappointing especially when compared to Rebecca and The Secret History in the advertisements.
4374582647	Madam took me by surprise. I didn't expect to be this involved and engrossed with the story, the characters and the plot. It has intriguing premise: a young woman is hired as a classics teacher into prestigious boarding school. Nothing seems what she expected and Rose starts unraveling the haunting reason why the boarding school exists. I can see why Madam has been such a divisive reading experience and I do agree with some criticism that are mentions in negative reviews - especially the narrator, Rose, furiated me in several occasions. Wynne, however, has managed to both horrify and entertain me so much that I gobbled the book in couple of sittings despite my busy schedule. The setting is haunting, the atmosphere dark and gothic and the plot well-paced. It's the exactly kind of dark academia novel that I have been searching ever since reading The Secret History for the first time.
3587453092	Caldonbrae Hall is an all girls' boarding school of great renown. Rose Christie is its most recent arrival, as the new Classics teacher and the only recruit to come from outside of the school in over a decade. Her new role comes with a sizable wage, an apartment on the premises, and healthcare for her ailing mother. It initially feels like a dream come true to teach there but the issue of having your dreams all granted from one place is that it now owns you and all of your happiness.This was a startlingly bleak read in which both Rose and the reader become increasingly exposed to all the sinister events occurring inside this great institution's walls. My issue stemmed from Rose's inability to see the truth of what was occurring, even after it was made obvious to the reader. A great portion of the novel was spent on Rose attempting to educate her young charges and getting thwarted at every turn, as well as having her every movement scrutinised and found wantingly unfeminine or uncouth by the other members of staff. This was of interest and critical to the plot but I felt too large a focus was spent here before Rose was rewarded with the truth.Once Rose was awakened to the full extent of the crimes committed the tension that dogged the initial stages of this book was still not alleviated. Having it confirmed only made both Rose and the reader aware of how truly depraved and backwards this school's dogma was.I had little idea of the direction this novel would take, from this point, but thought scenes of action outside of the school's walls would occur. They did not and I became disheartened by Rose's inactivity. The ending saw her become a passive participant in the horrors unfolding and she became someone I lost much respect for. I'm glad the final scenes, followed by the epilogue, altered this. I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Phoebe Wynne, and the publisher, Quercus, for this opportunity.
3699617264	Setting this book in 1992 gave the author a convenient way of controlling her protagonist. The absence of mobile phones and widespread internet would have wiped out most of Rose's problems and made the book a lot shorter. I wouldn't have minded if almost ANYTHING about that era other than the absence of communications had been present in the book.The book starts promisingly, but despite the author's best efforts to build suspense, the secret that's eventually revealed didn't strike me as that big a deal. Swiss finishing schools did 90% of what the school in the book did - who knows, maybe even the dodgy bits. And talking of those 'dodgy bits', introducing two mildly racy scenes may well have been a mistake - either go the whole hog and increase the smut or violence factor or leave it out completely. It doesn't bother me, but a lot of reviewers (especially Americans) seem to be easily offended by the odd swear word and any naughty bits at all.Whilst we're at it, I wasn't that impressed by the attempts to shoe-horn lots of tales of the classics into the book. Had they been more seamlessly included, I'd probably have gone for it. Instead, I found that after Dido, I pretty much skipped the short chapters about women from Greek and Latin (mostly) tragedies. There are quite a lot of inconsistencies. Rose seemed too young to be a Head of Department at 26. Her mother seemed too old to have such a young daughter. Debutantes stopped being presented to the queen in the 1960s but not in the weird world of this school. I didn't 'buy' the idea that well-to-do Japanese parents would send their daughters to Scotland to be taught to do things entirely outside their class by people who probably didn't know how to do them anyway.The biggest question I'm left with is WHY? Why would the headmaster want to recruit Rose only to change her? Why would it matter if the school had a Head of Classics or not? Why would he care if she stayed or went? I was expecting some 'history' between him and one of her parents to explain why he'd go to the bother of bringing her into the school. There's lots of potential to deliver something really interesting and to build significant tension and intrigue, but this reads rather more like Mallory Towers boosted with thin dose of scandal.
4133605377	REAL QUICK: I read this for the #ThrillsandChillsBookClub and enjoyed it. The character development was a bit lacking, but maybe it’s because I enjoy reading backstories. I thought it was really cool that the author went to a finishing school. I loved the setting, as I could picture the Scotland coast and the large castle known as Caldonbrae Hall. I also thought the snippets of Greek Mythology our protagonist taught in class was a nice touch. Do not expect this to be creepy, spooky, or scary. However, there is a mystery to keep the story moving. And sorry, no ghosts.
4010299399	Novel set in SCOTLAND2.5*Rose Christie, young Classics teacher, secures a job at Caldonbrae Hall, a boarding school for girls set in an ancestral castle in remote Scotland. It is something of an achievement as Caldonbrae Hall has had an unrivalled reputation for over a hundred years and Rose, at only 26, has been offered the position of Head of Classics. Rose is worried about leaving her ailing mother but is encouraged not to miss out on this excellent opportunity. She quickly discovers, however, that it’s extremely difficult for her to fit in to this elitist and ultra-traditional institution. She does her best but she is surrounded by secrecy and struggles to cope with the students who seem to be most unlike any teenagers she has known, being completely uninterested in the modern world and obsessed with their finishing school-type lessons. Rose is a proud feminist and finds the girls’ obsession with procuring a good marriage hard to swallow.It also doesn’t take long for Rose to suspect that there is something suspicious about her predecessor’s sudden departure from the school. As she begins to investigate this, she gradually unearths the real function of the school and starts to understand the lengths that the powers-to-be will go to keep the school’s secrets and prevent Rose revealing the truth. It would make sense for her to leave but she is trapped there, both physically by the ever-locked school gates and ever-vigilant ground staff and emotionally because the school has taken over the care of her mother by paying for a costly nursing home.Madam has been described as a Gothic novel and it certainly has the setting for it with the grim interior of the ancient castle complete with hidden passages, creaky doors and dimly lit passages and weather which is at best inclement and at worst downright dangerous.The blurb for Madam promised much – it’s a pretty sure-fire recipe, after all, but unfortunately it rather failed in the delivery. It’s set in the 1990s but the characters, the speech patterns, the attitudes and values are completely anachronistic and feel more like the 1890s. Elements of the plot stretch the reader’s suspension of disbelief to the limit too – a school that takes on the complete financial care and support of its staff’s relatives, that singularly fails to deliver in terms of anything other than preparation for marriage but seems to stay in unrivalled position in terms of reputation but, above all, a complete school full of teenage girls (and their parents) who have whole-heartedly signed up to this archaic system.The author’s influences are clear. Madam owes much to Jane Eyre and a fair bit to Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale – an uneasy combination at best. The bits of Madam that really worked for me were the parts which reflected the author’s own experience as a Classics teacher, the scenes where the central character, quite well-rounded and believable, uses her knowledge of Greek and Roman women to begin to be an influence on the girls. The structural device of introducing chapters with a classical tale was effective too. And then, for a lengthy book, it keeps up a steady pace and doesn’t flag and that’s not easy to achieve. There’s a good writer in here. She just needs to chuck aside her influences a bit more and stick with what she knows.
4804811460	Caldonbrae Boarding School, Scotland, 1990s. This gothic tale of elitism is told in part by using anecdotes of women from the Classics…Dido, Lucretia, Hippolytus, Medusa, and more. Women who dared to take control of their own lives, women who died for it.A young, forward-thinking professor of the Classics, Rose, is surprised yet happy to take up a position at the famous Caldonbrae Hall. That is until she realizes it houses some of the most elitist thinkers in all of Britain and produces conforming girls. Anyone who has dared to swim against the current has been “dealt with.”Rose navigates the gilded halls, endures taunts from her female students, and slowly uncovers the horrifying truths of why the girls are sent to Caldonbrae and isolated from the modern world.It was enjoyable for the most part. I was never bored despite the lack of plot and rather focus on characters and ideals. It was dark and disturbing at times.
3939175112	Super slow. Considered to DNF a few times. About an all girls boarding school. Lacked mystery and gothic elements like promised.
3847790135	I truly loved this book. Spine-chillingly addictive, I found myself swept, hand in hand with the delightful Rose, into an unfolding nightmare. Phoebe Wynne is a talented story teller, and I was reminded of Margaret Attwood, Daphne Du Maurier, and Charlotte Brönte’s Jane Eyre too, but with a modern twist. Drawing the classical tragedies into the story added to its richness and the inequitable treatment of women across the centuries, from the antiquities to the present day, echoes through its pages. I was immersed in the bleak landscape and terrifying atmosphere of Caldenbrae Hall from beginning to end, and felt every moment of the helplessness of Rose’s situation. A wonderful, refreshing, beautifully written novel, and I cannot wait to read Wynne’s next novel.
3824796309	Just a quick message for my book loving friends. This novel shouldn’t be in the genre “Gothic novel”. Nothing gothic about it… except maybe the cover. I stopped reading 240 pages in.
4611635504	I really wanted to love this book, despite its rather lackluster reviews. Also, I so badly wanted to love it that I broke a rather cardinal rule I generally apply to my book pickings - if it’s rated less than a 3.5, I typically won’t bother. After all, usually *that* many people aren’t going to rate something so low without reason. I have had surprises before, and I don’t always want to appear a complete sheep (“I can only read books critics and readers give 4 stars or more!”). I took a chance on Black Chalk, which I believe the last I’d looked, was rated around a 3.21 (out of how many ratings, I’m not sure). I loved it. The same goes for The Ballerinas, which was published last year - it also has maybe a 3.5 average rating, possibly lower. Those were exceptions, though. This book was every bit as bad as other readers warned it to be.I was drawn to the book, as I assume most were, by the idea of some creepy Gothic type institution where things weren’t as they seemed. Rose, Caldonbrae Hall’s first new hire in 10 years, has no idea what she’s getting herself into (other than that she’ll be teaching at a boarding school for girls; girls from the most elite families in Britain). Being raised by a mother with a very feminist set of ideals, Rose is 26 years old, unmarried, and childless. Of course, no one cares about that now or in the time period the story is set - the 1990s (for whatever reason). Yet Caldonbrae Hall and its students very much do care, and hope to mold Rose into a more complacent, subservient woman, as if it is the 1910s, rather.Unfortunately for Rose, long after the reader recognizes the school’s true purpose, she’s still fumbling around. And not even doing so in a discreet way. Nope. Rose recognizes that not only her own life, but her terminally ill mother’s life (whom Caldonbrae immediately took care of, providing her with the best medical care in the best medical assisted living clinic in the country) are both in imminent danger, should she decide to go wayward and not simply accept and conform to the ways of the school. Yet, even when it emerges that this is no longer simply something she’s paranoid about, but something she’s literally threatened with? Rose doesn’t seem capable of shutting up and silently trying to find a way out of this bizarre situation. Instead of just pretending to play along, we literally get to hear about Rose’s spluttering “outrage” just about every other page. I’m still not exactly sure what role Rose was supposed to play. The fact that she is a Classicist who teaches the girls a lot of Greek mythology focused on powerful women, women who stood up for themselves and made a difference no matter what the cost, would imply that the author intended for her to be some type of modern day Greek goddess/heroine (or at the very least, she empowered a handful of her female students). The problem with Rose serving in this capacity, of course, as already mentioned, is her utter lack of rational behavior and zero impulse control. The ending was completely unbelievable as it was - let alone when attributed to someone who is really utterly spineless. No reader would expect someone so dense and impulsive to escape an institution that powerful unscathed.It was as if the writer simply had a good plot, but didn’t know how to (or didn’t take the time to) venture beyond the initial idea. The book started out interesting enough, but it’s impossible by - maybe 1/4, 1/5, even? - of the way in not to have a pretty good idea of what’s happening. Going back to the idea of the author simply not knowing what to do after coming up with a good plot, this especially pertains to the novel’s ending, and how Rose was going to use her “courageous feminine values” to stop the antiquated institution once and for all. Simply not believable in the slightest. Not only that, but I fail to see how the ultimate consequences of the actions taken at the end could be construed as “heroic” - I mean, yes, it was an antiquated system, but the way in which Rose reacted, one would think they were forcing the girls into an underground sexual slavery ring (which wasn’t the case at all, save for the disgusting “Worship” class scene, in all of its pedophilic glory - completely unnecessary, by the way).I gave it two stars because again, the plot seemed so interesting that it lured me in despite the less-than-impressive reviews, and I did enjoy reading the first 80 pages or so. I really wouldn’t recommend, but then again, there are people who REALLY loved it... to each their own.
4033779578	** spoiler alert ** Twice I considered putting this book down, and I wish now that I had. But I paid $30 for it, so I felt compelled to finish. First, it is, in many ways, a stylistic mess. There are obviously mistakes throughout, especially in the book’s diction and syntax. The transitions are jarring, and the book moves with a pace that is neither logical nor enjoyable, thrusting the heroine (do we call her that?) from one corridor of the castle to another with little ease or context. It’s difficult to place its genre. I assumed it was literary fiction, but it borrows superficially from gothic and horror conventions at the expense of any kind of generic stability. It’s a deeply paranoid and claustrophobic book. The novel’s dramatic reveal is both unsurprising and appalling, but the book plunges unexpectedly into the unwelcome and soul-destroying realm of sexual abuse, grooming, rape, pedophilia, and child pornography. Nothing in literary fiction is more morally bankrupt than violence for violence’s sake. Exemplary authors like Dorothy Allison have deftly navigated the fraught waters of sexual abuse in their novels and make clear with deliberate care the literary (and autobiographical) significance of such violence. The most disturbing aspect of the various acts of unspeakable violence in Madam is that they are unnecessary to the purpose and progress of the book. The notion of the antiquated marriage factory is disturbing enough, but it serves its purpose. Besides, it’s not to hard to draw a through line between the conventions of the twentieth century finishing school and Caldonbrae Hall. Madam’s sex dungeons and scenes of statutory rape add nothing to the development of the book, and the scenes of sexual exploitation read like cheap shock and awe (HBO’s Game of Thrones has been criticized for the same narrative tactics, in which an audience/reader becomes desensitized to acts of extreme violence, especially sexual violence against women, and comes to accept them as legitimate plot devices and devices of character development.). This is narrative malpractice. As her characters are active participants in the exploitation and abuse of young girls, the author herself is complicit in the narrative abuse of her characters—and for the sake of what? To scandalize her audience? To sexually arouse the pedophiles who happen to read this book? What is the value of this?Finally, the ills of the narrative are offered no opportunity for redemption or resolution. The author (rather abruptly) burns it all down--literally--killing almost every character we've encountered and a majority of the students at Caldonbrae in a fiery inferno that lasts for less than 10 pages. Rose survives, and some students are allowed to survive, conveniently the ones who conformed to Rose's version of womanhood/feminism. Were the other hundreds of victims of the school's abuse and exploitation deserving of their fate? Did they need to die? The ending seems to call up even more ethical questions about how we define 'victimhood' and make victims of trauma and brainwashing pay for their victimhood alongside the perpetrators of violence. Even more, the fire isn't a deliberate or premeditated act. It's an accident! So any attempt to apply a feminist (I'm still not sure what kind of feminism we're dealing with in this book) spin to a narrative about young women revolting against an abusive patriarchal institution and literally burning it to the ground is lost. Beyond that central criticism, the ending is rushed and cheap (A smirking Rose contemplates burning down another school? Will there be a sequel? Dear reader, I pray not) and the narrative is peppered with distracting and pedantic descriptions of various Greek and Roman characters from ancient history and mythology that cheapen the value of literary allusion. Why not allow Rose (a teacher!) to deftly weave a lesson on Dido or Medusa into her classroom dialogue? What function do these didactic, textbook interludes serve? As Keats said, “we detest [literature] that has a palpable design upon us.” I could go on: in its effort to condemn homophobia and Anti-Asian discrimination, the book ends up perpetuating stereotypes by offering underdeveloped and tokenized caricatures made possible by what appears to be a hollow feminism.
3933028826	In early 1990s, Rose is employed at Calonbrae Hall, a boarding school in Scotland for girls of wealthy and influential families, as the new Classics teacher. Her predecessor left in mysterious circumstances. She learns the school might not be what she hoped it would be (the students are weird, they have a fascination for the old Madam, they do not respect her, her mother is taken to a care institute by the school without consultation) and there are secrets to unfold. I had high hopes for the book. Especially with comparisons to Maurier's classic Rebecca. While the basic idea of a new teacher being obsessed with the previous teacher who left the institute can be understood, the writing lacked the pulse to move forward and felt devoid of life. It felt wordy. I could see that Wynne tried to create atmosphere and suffocation but it wasn't successful. I couldn't be convinced by the students either. Had high expectations and was disappointed.PS: It is blurbed as something Donna Tartt and Margaret Atwood would write together. No. 2.5 starsMuch thanks to the publisher for an ARC. All opinions are my own
3604877496	In Madam, Rose Christie is mid-twenties classics teacher, who's offered a dream job at an upscale girls' school in Scotland. I love stories set in girls' schools, and the isolated campus was perfect. This is a creeping gothic novel where everything is just a little off, but the protag has the practicality that comes from classroom teaching and the example of her historical women, from Dido to Medea.Other teachers make vague references to the important things their girls are doing, and the extra lessons they're taking, and promise that everything will be explained soon. Really soon. Not right now, of course, just keep teaching lessons. There are these constant gothic hints that something is very wrong at this posh boarding school and something very dark is happening just off-screen, blended with some snotty students rolling their eyes and telling Rose that she really doesn't know anything yet.As Rose discovers what's actually happening at her new job, there's an even creepier investigation about who is complicit and connected, and what everyone around her is getting out of working or studying at Caldonbrae Hall. A lot of the students are legacies, all are from upperclass, well-connected families, and some of graduates stay on in cushy teaching or "pastoral" roles. Seems like (almost) everyone around Rose just loves the school community.This novel is an absolute page-turner, because I was so desperate to figure out just what Rose had gotten herself into and especially what had happened to the previous classics teacher.
4011409835	I rarely write reviews and have almost never written a scathing review, but this book was terrrrrrrible.My sister and I both started it the day it was released. Comparisons to Donna Tartt's TSH and to du Maurier's Rebecca? Damp boarding school in Scotland? Yes, please! I should have known better. I feel hoodwinked, but I guess a sucker's born every minute.I was concerned when the dedication was to all the students "that" crossed her threshold.I was more concerned at the prologue. Bless.I got through the first fifty pages or so and then it became a hate finish for me. I refused to put it down and completed the novel in two days. Every plot "twist" was recognizable long ahead of time. Not a single character was fleshed out beyond the surface, including the narrator. The potentially incredible setting and landscape were also pretty much wasted.A compliment where due: the classics lesson insertions were lovely. I enjoyed them and I bet this author is an amazing classics teacher. If she wrote a book of classics lessons, I'd probably read it.I also think with solid editing this book could have been significantly better. The plot isn't a terrible idea. It's just not deftly handled. Or even marginally well done. My sister is a DNF and I don't blame her.
3773374158	Unfortunately a disappointment in the quest to discover another book that can move us like Donna Tartt's The Secret History. Principal defect: absence of a school I'd ever want to attend or a group of students I'd ever want to have as friends. Supposedly this story takes place in the 1990s, though we find that the girls are still being presented at Court as debutantes, a custom abolished in the '50s. Actually, if the story had been set then, it would have been almost believable. Having myself written a novel about a Classics mistress at a boarding school, I was interested to see how Wynne portrayed the actual teaching. Most of the girls are far too apathetic to learn anything at all, but what they are supposed to be reading is much too advanced, including Sophocles' Oedipus and Euripides' Hippolytus and Medea. There is practically no actual translating. We do however get every device ever associated with gothic fiction: the great gloomy mansion on the rocky stormy coast of Scotland, mysterious disappearances (including of a character named Jane), and the expected catastrophe.
3806171656	I was really looking forward to reading this. Somehow the blurb made it sound fascinating, full of plot twists, intrigues, and excitement.Sadly, the book doesn't live up to the publicity. It needed so much editorial input. The characters were so flat, especially the protagonist herself, Rose. Plot elements were unbelievable, too quick, or too slow. The story itself was distasteful; pretending to be feminist yet ending up salacious and toe curling. The writing isn't constant, either dwelling on details that are intended to sound gothic, yet end up sounding adolescent, or else containing no detail at all.This was a debut novel, and I think it sad that neither her agent nor her publisher helped the writer to make a much better book of this. With luck, she'll take these criticisms in good heart, look hard at her next book, and make sure she doesn't make the same mistakes. Not recommended in its current form!
4184184101	I know this book has had rather mixed reviews, with many verging on the bad. But to me, this is a great example of a gothic slow burn and they are one of my favourite types of novel to read. I got hints of ‘Rebecca’, ‘The Wicker Man’ and ‘Midsommar’ from this, and delighted as I did so. The story centres around an isolated school in Scotland, and the rules, traditions and values that keep the staff and pupils connected there. Into this maelstrom comes a new Classics teacher named Rose, who is the first new teacher to be recruited in decades. Can Rose come to terms with the school, or will it destroy her?I found it really disturbing, uncanny and just downright weird. Sometimes I couldn’t believe what I was reading. But I loved it.
4027516531	Twenty-six year-old Classics teacher Rose Christie feels privileged to be hired as a department head for a prestigious Scottish all-girls' school, the first hire in ten years. Caldonbrae Hall has been open for 150 years with a mission to educate the "girls for the future." However, shortly after her arrival, Rose finds the school and many of its teachers stuck in the past. She also seems unable to find anyone who can tell her about her predecessor's sudden departure. And, then she learns that one of the students was found dead on the beach below the cliffs upon which the rambling Victorian school sits. The more she learns, the more she believes that the school's facade hides a sinister purpose. The setting of the castle-like Caldonbrae Hall on the cliffs of an isolated Scottish promontory above the North Sea creates a Gothic-feel to this novel, which is augmented by a large portrait of the founder in the dining hall. I almost expected to meet a ghost in the labyrinthian halls of the school, but there is none in this book except for the ghost-like remains of Rose's predecessor that seems to still haunt the school. Although many of the instructors and administrators are well "fleshed out", the girls were stereotypical, divided into two groups - the "mean girls" and the innocents. The biggest flaw with this book was the pacing of the plot. At times, it moved quite quickly and too frequently in the latter half, it moved at a snail's pace, which I found repetative. A blurb on the front of the book recommends this book to those who enjoyed The Secret History by Donna Tartt and The Handmaid's Tale by Margaret Atwood. I agree but believe that this one is not an equal to these two. I would also add Rosemary's Baby by Ira Levin for its similar atmosphere where appearances can be deceiving.
4457000423	I love some dark academia and this was the perfect book to cuddle up with during these winter months. The story is about an all girls school that claim to educate young girls into the finest and most eloquent women in England, but boy are they far from anything near that. A young teacher from the city named Rose gets hired to teach at this prestigious school and she couldn't have been happier to watch her career skyrocket. She gets roped into the school faculty's snatching hands, not knowing a single clue of the shock awaiting her.Honestly, the school is very interesting. It's more like an institution training girls towards a bleak future, but I'll let you figure out the grimy details on your own. Prepare for some jaw dropping, disgusting, and horrifying British traditions, passed down from generation to generation.Rose is instructed to teach Latin, and there are way too many stories on Greek mythology along the way (which frankly, I found extremely annoying, but some of them were necessary to understand the rest of the book and what the students learn from them) As for Rose's day to day activities, I found pretty interesting in the beginning, however, her story began to get a little stretched and repetitive. Which is only reason why I give the book 4 stars and not 5- but the plot twist makes up for it and is totally worth it: satisfying and scrumptious, in every way imaginable.I really don't understand why I've come across so many negative reviews on this book- many of which people have DNR'd because it was "that bad" but honestly, if you don't mind some dark and twisty academia, this is an awesome book. I understand many of the characters were unlikeable, especially Rose at times who seemed to be extremely naive during many instances, but I mean, the story still kept me on edge! The author's descriptive writing is on point. Give it a try, you won't regret it!
3938635737	What a great thriller- think if The Stepford Wives had been human, this is the story of their private boarding school and it’s archaic methods of training/brainwashing. Set in a beautiful but eerie castle on the cliffs of Scotland, the structure of the school itself is almost a living, breathing creation that meanders and entraps, with no logical layout or airy welcomeness.Rose Christie is in awe and honored when she’s offered a prestigious position at the school, especially considering they haven’t hired new people in years. As a benefit of employment her ailing mother is taken into the school’s care, and moved to a nice home with excellent nursing. Rose is almost immediately suspicious of the methods the school enforces on its all-female body: you must address your teachers as Madam or Sir, you may only discuss certain topics, your diet, curriculum, hobbies and interests are all strictly monitored and controlled by this school led by pompous, haughty and and extremely creepy men. There’s never a slow point or a dull moment once Rose settles into her dorm. The classes are nerve-wracking, the dining hall is anything but relaxing, there’s no TV or radio, no contact with family or loved ones unless strictly monitored. Rose is kept in the dark about her mother’s welfare. There’s these odd ceremonies for the students, similar to a coronation ball but with no other young adults present. And then there are these really perverse classes, one in particular that Rose walks in on: a vision that you won’t soon forget.When you start this book, get ready for a tense ride. I had to keep reading, because I knew it wasn’t going to end well, I just didn’t know who and how many would not survive.Sincere thanks to NetGalley and St. Martin’s Press for an ARC in exchange for my honest review. The publishing date is May 18, 2021.
6911456897	2.5 ⭐rounded up to 3. Madam had a lot of promise, but it didn’t quite hit the mark for me. The story is set in 1993, but it felt like it was happening in the 1800's, which was quite confusing. There were hardly any likable characters, and as it's a dark story, this made reading tough. Rose was very frustrating, being either too passive or just hysterical. Despite seeming to hugely disagree with the system in place, it was a bit bizarre to see how much she put up with before taking any action, and her behavior was all over the place. The story dragged a lot, and there was way too much Greek mythology talk that didn’t seem to fit in and the classroom scenes became boring. I did GASP a lot during the story which was at times exciting. I also love Gothic literature, and the atmosphere of the school really captured this, but for me it wasn’t enough to save the story. In the end, I really wanted to love this book, but it just didn’t live up to its potential.
4190117613	I really wanted to like this book. The setting was suitably ominous, the cover is gorgeous, and the overall plot was neat. However, it left a bad taste in my mouth. It wasn't as suspenseful as I would like, and all the adults were either absolutely morally loathsome or completely spineless. Meh.Also, as an educator, some of the plot points and relationships were extra horrific. That could have been a strong point for the book if the horrific moments had been adequately addressed. However, it felt more like something shocking would happen, the protagonist would be shocked, and then there were virtually no repercussions aside from an overall reinforcement that Things Are Bad. I need follow through, dang it!
4154857063	Hmmmm… very conflicted about this book. I’m giving it a 4 stars because I kept wanting to read it and to figure out what was going on in the story. This story follows Rose, who is newly employed at this prestigious boarding school in Scotland. Think of all the dark, atmospheric and eerie vibes and that’s what you get with the story. Obviously, at this school there are immediate red flags that are apparent to Rose and other secrets and mysteries that make you scratch your head trying to figure out what’s really going on. I think people are either going to hate this book or like it, and I liked it… I think. Definitely look up trigger warnings if you’re sensitive. I feel like this style of writing is Margaret Atwood meets Donna Tartt meets Charlotte Brontë meets Victoria Holt.I believe this is a debut novel and I will definitely read from this author again as I can only imagine her writing will get better.
4381322539	I'm a huge fan of dark academia, so this novel sounded right up my alley, but man was it boring.
4015218272	Highly enjoyable, but also quite disturbing...
4253236493	Profoundly unsettling. This will stick with me for a while.
3780347168	This was a quick and easy read. It did drag on in a few places but I liked the ending and it seemed a fit read while traveling throughout Ireland.
6320455372	This book kept my guessing right up until the truth was revealed!!! Sometimes I think I knew what it was and then I’d quickly change my mind and back again! Excellent writing.
3768040152	I really wanted to like this book because it was compared to the Secret History, which I loved, and featured an atmospheric, gothic setting (also love). But unfortunately for me, the execution stumbled for this book.My biggest gripe with it is that I truly disliked the main character. She makes no sense: she’s supposedly highly educated/successful in her field, and yet makes the dumbest decisions (signing away her mom’s power of attorney to the school because lol what’s that?) and naively shows her suspicions about the school on her sleeve. Read the room, Rose. These people are all obviously cool with what’s going down at the school, so don’t waste your time trying to reason with them about how it’s all wrong. But the weird thing is that Rose is inconsistent with her reactions to things she discovers at the school. She makes a scene and freaks out over one thing, then keeps her head down over things that are way worse. I can only follow a main character for so long when she behaves in the exact opposite way I would.Other gripes include heavy-handed feminism (would have killed for some subtly), A LOT of dumbed-down teaching scenes about Greek mythology and the accompanying juvenile (read: annoying) dialogue from the students (they sound like literal 8-year-olds, not teenagers). There were also just so many missed opportunities for suspense; I kept expecting something more sinister to go down with her mother, but that was kind of a dead end. Then the mysteries that are woven throughout the book (who keeps moving her ceramic owl? Who keeps sending her notes?) are all revealed in the most lackluster way, like one character deciding to tell her all of a sudden rather than some exciting scene where Rose puts two and two together, which would be so much more satisfying.The book could have benefited from more development first in the beginning to really lay the groundwork for why Rose would be so desperate to fall for this school’s trap, and also in the character development of the school’s founder. This is a cult-y book without much of a leader, which doesn’t work in my opinion. I think this book could have worked as a dystopian or horror novel, but it was just so hard to believe these people and this place were supposed to fit into our current world.
