7049777736	This is a historical fiction debut novel by A. Rae Dunlap. If you enjoy twisty gothic tales set in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1828, then this may be the book for you. It pulls from true crime of the period with some real people, including criminals, being featured in this fictional story of a dark period in Scottish history.James Willoughby, as the third son of a landed gentry family, is too physically inept to join the military and abandons his studies at Oxford to pursue a dream of studying surgery in Edinburgh. The city’s university offers everything he desires except the change to work on a human cadaver. To do this, he must join a private school in Surgeon’s Square. Without the necessary funds, he strikes a deal with Aneurin (Nye) MacKinnon for half tuition in return for helping him without realizing that Nye is a body-snatcher. With rival gangs and unsavory characters mixing with pioneering medical procedures and the pursuit of science plus a forbidden love for the time-period, there’s a combination of fact and fiction.James tends to have physical ineptitude, wants a sense of belonging, yearns for a purpose, and is a loyal friend. He’s also a driven student, somewhat innocent, and an advocate for justice. The other characters are well-defined.Besides great characterization, the world-building was fantastic. From James’s room at the inn to the surgery center to scenes of gore and violence, it was easy to visualize. The blend of true crime and historical fiction had me researching this time-period to find out more about the true crime aspect of this story and the body-snatching business of the time. My biggest quibbles with the book were that I felt the writing style was somewhat formal and sometimes this resulted in more telling than showing. While many have classified this as a historical mystery, I didn’t get the feel that there was much of a mystery. It was more of a straight historical fiction novel to me. Other threads woven through the story include friendship, academic exploits, power, concepts of morality, class divisions, and treatment of women. Overall, this was an entertaining story that had great characterization and was very atmospheric. The author’s note and the discussion questions are worth reading and thinking about them. Kensington Publishing and A. Rae Dunlap provided a complimentary digital ARC of this novel via NetGalley. All opinions expressed in this review are my own. The publication date is currently set for December 24, 2024. ------------------------------------------My 3.98 rounded to 4 stars review is coming soon.
7304534288	As someone who has, for the longest time, been fascinated by Penny Dreadfuls, crime stories set during Victorian England and story's featuring the morbid topic of resurrection men and the emergence of medical sciences in the 19th century, I completely adored this story ❤️James, as the third son of modestly landed family, is aware that the avenues available to him to build a financially stable life for himself are few and far between. Following the death of his father, James leaves his education at Oxford to move to Edinburgh to pursue his passions is the surgical sciences. However, in order to get his foot in the door for the opportunities he needs, James finds himself agreeing to an arrangement and learning more than he bargained for regarding the underbelly of the surgical schools, and more pressingly, the procurement of their medical specimens. James was just a wonderful protagonist, his journey of naivety and innocence being stripped away from him as he falls further into the immoral underbelly of resurrectionist work mirrors the readers journey alongside him. This book really had some great elements of a coming of age story and it was wonderful to watch James come into his own over the course of his adventures and become more confident and assertive in himself. And Nye...what a wonderful love interest, I am completely weak for him. Smart, charming, capable and mercurial. Completely unscrupulous, a mad butcher and a rogue in matters of business, yet earnest and loyal in matters of the heart. My heart hurt for him as we found out more about his back story, and see the lens that it provides James for his own understanding of his relationship with Nye and the power dynamic that exists there despite Nye's on bravado and confidence. Nye and James' relationship just really worked for me. Its worth noting that this is fade to black, so you'll be disappointed if you're after something with some spice. This is ultimately, at its core, a reimagining of the fascinating true crime case of Burke and Hare, and despite the number of movies and books I've consumed on this topic, I thought that this was a fun and fresh take on a case that has long captured people's morbid imaginings. There is so much potential here for a sequel and I hope to every deity listening that this won't be the last the author writes of James and Nye's lives and adventures. (the planets really aligned this week to give me some wonderful reads ❤️)
7053017653	I really hoped to love this book, and while I was able to enjoy it, it was a bit of a struggle. There are certainly things I enjoyed, so let’s focus on those, first. The whole concept is one I really appreciate; it is a fun piece of history to play with. By superimposing these two outsider identities, queerness and being a body snatcher, never mind the contrasts between the class and social status of the various characters, there is a great opportunity for commentary about how society works and what is expected of different individuals. I don’t think those opportunities are exploited as much as they could be, but the ideas are definitely floated about. Additionally, while there is a part of me that is frustrated by the nonchalance of the queer awakening in this story, I also appreciate it for that, as well. There is no self-torture or denial, there is never anything other than this feels right and so I am going to follow that instinct, and I appreciate that. I would have liked a little internal conversation, some sort of reckoning or acknowledgment, especially given how dangerous it was to be queer at that time, which is brought up later in the story, and that never really happens, which was disappointing. I don’t need hysterics and self-damnation, but it felt like we got little internal shift or recognition of something quite monumental. Still, I found myself appreciating how little drama this occupied in our character’s mind. The characters were on the right path to me, but didn’t quite get there. They weren’t bland, but they did feel like they slipped into easy archetypes or expectations. Nothing they did really surprised me, I should say. I think if we had spent more time with his other friends, who we only get bits of here and there, we could have seen more sides of the characters and let them feel more lived-in and robust. Still, they didn’t bore me, and I think we did see a decent amount of character growth in James, even if the trajectory was expected.I think what really made the book hard for me, though, was the writing and plotting. Now, the writing and plotting weren’t bad, but they just didn’t work for me. Firstly, I really didn’t like that the narrator broke the fourth wall to address the reader, and more than once. This immediately created a sense of artifice that I think harmed my investment, because it didn’t add anything or change the stakes in any useful way. But in addition to that narrative framing, the writing felt too eager for me, maybe a little twee, and because of that slightly tortured. For instance, there were words italicized in what felt like every paragraph, and I am sure it wasn’t that many, but it certainly felt that way. Both dialogue and narration, there were just italics running around all over the place and it made everything feel a little forced. Additionally, there were some language choices and turns of phrase that felt belabored. A few of that, sprinkled throughout, adds style and tone and I really appreciate it. Here it was just too much, too often. I do get the point, the whole story is from the point of view of a character who has a very specific upbringing and history and education, and he thinks in these kinds of florid, too-smart-for-his-own-good kind of turns of phrase. I like it when the writing style does some of the character-building work, but they were overly frequent enough to distract me. I think part of my issue, to be fair, is that this story is far more YA than I had anticipated. The plot is very simple, and each obstacle comes up and then is mostly solved right away before moving on, with only minimal lingering effects. Even the deadly obstacle alluded to in the description is barely an important plot point, it is introduced very late in the story and solved readily. So, the plotting feels very much like it sets something up and then knocks it down, I didn’t feel anything lingering in any meaningful way throughout the whole book. Everything was tidy and convenient, which made it less interesting to me. The book actually borders on cozy, with very brief on-page violence near the end but otherwise nothing happens on the page in any titillating or violent ways, which just made everything feel really safe. For a story about a queer man—at a time when being queer could get you handed—who steals bodies from graves. I never really felt any danger in the story. The florid writing and sequential/episodic plotting combine with this to just feel far less complicated and messy and deeply intriguing than the premise and characters held the promise of being. Which, I think, is fine. Like I said, it feels like a YA, almost cozy exploration of a macabre topic. While the writing and plotting didn’t work for me, there was a clear style that might be exactly what others are looking for in this book. While I think everything could have been turned up a little—from character depth to more intricate plotting to introducing actual feelings of dread or danger, physical or emotional, that lasted more than a page before being resolved—and that would have made the book more appealing to me, there is a definite competency in the authorial voice and decisions. I want to thank the author, the publisher Kensington Publishing, and NetGalley, who provided a complimentary eARC for review. I am leaving this review voluntarily.
6524897858	4.5 ☆What a stunning debut! The writing was incredibly immersive and so beautiful that I was immediately drawn in. I loved the way the author took the real life events surrounding the Burke and Hare killings and included their own fictional elements while still staying true to the goings on of the time. Maybe it’s my love of science and true crime that caused it, but I couldn’t help but support them excavating these bodies in the name of research. Aneurin, who is the assistant of the famous Dr. Malstrom, painted such an exquisite picture to make one not view these body snatchings as crimes, but as a way to revolutionize the medical field, the effects trickling down to other aspects of life.The romance between James and Aneurin was so cute! It didn’t take away from the mystery at all; but was rather just another thing to love about the story! Aneurin, along with his band of body snatchers, greatly contributed to James’s character development and I loved seeing him come into himself. I’m finding historical fiction to be a genre I enjoy and I can’t wait for more people to read this! If you like gothic writing, macabre settings, hilariously dramatic characters with a little romance, then this is definitely the book for you. Dunlap definitely outdid herself and I’m excited to see what else she delivers in the future. Thank you NetGalley and Kensington publishing for this arc in exchange for a review!⤷ Fave quotes/lines:• ’Yet I must insist that in the end, this is not a story about Death. It is perhaps a Life story, or even--yes--a Love story. It is the story of how I clawed my way from the decay of a crumbling legacy into the modern era of Reason and Science. It is the story of how I escaped the prison of archaic superstition to the freedom of enlightenment. It is the story of how a rose can blossom from even the bloodiest soil, of how light can grow from shadow, how love can grow from despair.’• Aneurin’s eyes raked across my face, and I had the uncomfortable sensation of being dissected without so much as a single incision. At long last, he responded. “I can’t tell whether you’re stupider than you seem, more naive than I’d come to believe, or so intentionally obtuse as to be a rare and volatile combination of the two.”• “You came to Edinburgh because you were looking for the face of God and couldn’t find it in your Bible. Don’t cast blame on me if His true appearance is not the one of beatific serenity you’d been deceived into believing. This is the face of Progress, James. Don’t you dare look away.”• ‘How could anything be unnatural when our coupling felt as easy as breathing air? How could the life I’d found with Nye be anything other than a benediction, full of grace? How could Nye ever be less than everything?’
7269806847	insane behavior all around - loved it
7298343303	where do i begin?throughout any reader's journey, it's inevitable they find a spare smattering of books that speak to them on some sort of personal level. the characters? the story? the themes, the adventure, the excitement--it doesn't quite matter what does it for us all, merely that the love is there in the end. this, my friends, is one such book to me. i'll be the first to admit the resurrectionist is no perfect thing. it is often obtusely overwritten, so much so that i'd read a few passes to friends for a good laugh. yet amidst the muck of purple prose (you get used to it after a chapter or so, honestly) is something beautiful.i was captivated! the atmosphere. the plot. our characters, and the endless grime of it all. but above all? what i hadn't expected was for this book to be so romantic. i knew there was a love interest, sure. i figured our main character would share a few kisses through the chapters, spend a few nights tangled up in the sheets during small lulls before the plot kicked back up, but no. i was wrong, and i have never been more glad for it.for all it's damp earth, dead bodies, and general gloom... the resurrectionist is a love story. one that tore me apart, kissed me sweetly, and soothed me when i'd lost faith. "And Nye. Every moment with him felt like a dream decoded, a riddle unravelled in a foreign tongue. Whether drinking by my side at the Pig, eyeing me appraisingly across the hall at Malestrom's, or splayed out casually in my desk chair recovering from the rigors of a dig, he was my North Star whenever the darkness of doubt threatened to envelop me. When I could not tell dreams from my wakefulness, he remained my touchstone and my Truth; a glimmer in his eye and a quirk of his lips were all that it took to make me feel manifest, whole, and worthy."the moment i read that, i knew i'd never forget them. james is a charming main character. he's fun, engaging, and i'd gleefully read an entire series of books just to stick around in his head. but... nye? nye, my dear, you have skyrocketed yourself above the rest. you have forever earned yourself a place among my most beloved characters with your charm, your wit, your endless knowledge, your flair for dramatics and complete disregard for the law. i want more. i need more. i will not be satisfied until i am once again up to my throat in grave soil, poking about some eviscerated corpse, or at the pig once more with james, nye, and the rest of their friends.
6418799385	With wit as sharp as a scalpel, and a plot as dark and twisted as the Edinburgh alleys in which it is set, The Resurrectionist is a thrilling debut that will have readers turning pages deep into the night.
6708625550	Review Soon!!
7051618906	what if we worked together to steal the bodies of the recently deceased from graveyards around the city in order to supply our med school with cadavers and we fell in love while evading arrest and the hangman’s noose? what then?Bookstagram | Blog
6738103290	I wanted to love this book, but it fell sorely short of every single expectation it set for itself in its blurb. To elaborate:First, the description promises that the action of this book is set against the backdrop of Hare and Burke’s terrorism of 19th-century Edinburgh. This is a bald-faced lie. Hare and Burke do appear in the book, but only for about 40 pages in what has to be one of the most random endings I’ve ever read. And let’s get this straight: I don’t really want to read about serial killers. But if your blurb promises that kind of atmosphere, it’s a really strange decision to leave any mention of these folks for a late-stage reveal that has essentially nothing to do with the rest of the plot.Second, the description insinuates that the reader, like the narrator, will be captivated by the body-snatcher Nye. Bold claims for a character who is basically a male manic-pixie archetype. There’s literally nothing captivating about any of the characters, including and especially the two male leads. They were both narcissistic, pompous brats, and I took no pleasure at all in reading about either of them. Finally (there’s more, honestly, but I can’t be bothered to keep this going much longer), the description promises vibes, and name drops the likes of M.L. Rio. But here’s the thing: vibes are born from good writing, and the writing here was amateur at best. The author over-used italics to the point of hilarity, made barely a passing effort to imitate 19th-century writing and speech (anachronisms abound!), and either didn’t have an editor or employed a poor one. I knew I was in trouble from the first chapter when a character refers to a piece of luggage as “the beast,” and the author couldn’t figure out how she wanted to handle this moniker. Within the span of three paragraphs, the piece of luggage is referred to as beast (twice), The Beast, and The Beast. It’s like the author was trying out different ways to talk about this piece of luggage in real time and then forgot to go back and change it to its final incarnation in editing (it’s The Beast, by the way. No italics. And sadly we have to read about it several more times.).I feel bad because this is a debut, but there was truly nothing substantial here for me to latch onto, and I ended up skimming the final third of the book. I’ll will end by noting that this book felt far more YA than the premise suggested, so perhaps a younger audience might find more worth within its pages than I.
6949566539	Unexpected content (in reading the End Notes first.) Should have been disclosed as an LGBT book.
6472992133	“The resurrectionist” is a historical fiction that deep dives into the true crime surrounding the murderous duo Burke and HareThe book is full of real life people/characters and you can tell the author took a lot of time to do thorough research prior to writing the book. I enjoy reading thrillers with a medical component such as medical students and autopsies and you get plenty of that in this book. .There was also a little side plot including romance themes between the protagonist and a love interest which gave the plot an extra layer but didn’t go to overboard or overshadow the rest of the story. Thank you to Kensington Publishing, Rae Dunlap and NetGalley for the EARC! Publish date: December 24th
6516766380	** spoiler alert ** I picked this book knowing only that it involved Edinburgh (a favourite place of mine) and Burke & Hare. That was enough to get me interested, but the story kept me hooked. The characters herein are so well put together, coupled with the way the author seamlessly adds world building, supplies a story that makes for an exciting novel. Having never read a book with two MMC who are in a relationship before, I have no basis to state wether this aspect was dealt with appropriately, but I feel it was handled with care and consideration, leaving a description of an evolving relationship. I really enjoyed this book.
7021790868	Oh my goodness, I am wonderfully, blissfully blown away! This was such a beautiful read! What more could an avid reader of horror, medical jargon and the occasional romance novel want?! This was pure perfection to meet these elemental desires. A timepiece for 1828 written so perfectly that it submerses you wholly into the world created by Dunlap. How on Earth is this a debut?! The finesse of this beautiful story is just so wonderful and I had such a divine time. Wait to fall head over heels for a wonderfully created character, Nye. He is so vastly intelligent inside the lab and on the streets. It seems no matter the situation or predicament, he is always masterfully equipped to resolve and move forward. He meets our main character, James, through his determination to become a surgeon of great aptitude, and that means finding knowledge outside of the University in the anatomy lab of Malestrom's. His position which he hopes to gain, is rewarded through other means which wonderfully propels the story forward. What a wonderful adventure these two find themselves in for the vocation you will discover with the medical mind and witty heart. I devoured the scenes with all the details one would hope to find brimming with correct references in the medical field. The romance was just beautifully intertwined. There is a dark moment in the story, where true horrors rear their ugliness and the characters rise to chivalrous acts that can only win the hearts of the readers. The chapters were a perfect length. The language used was just gorgeous. The prose was like the most comfortable day on the beach one could hope for. The ending was perfect, although I was momentarily hopeful for a sequel. Thank you Dunlap, for sharing such a beautiful story. So wonderfully written. I do share a few of my favorite passages with wanting readers. As a man of science I of course eschewed all beliefs in the supernatural and occult, but something about the jagged tombstones rising like ravenous teeth from beneath the frosted earth evoked an inevitable sense of foreboding. 5%"A cut of meat is a cut of meat, no matter how you slice it." 13%"You came to Edinburgh because you were looking for the face of God and couldn't find it in your Bible. Don't cast blame on me if His true appearance is not the one of beatific serenity you'd been deceived into believing. This is the face of progress, James. Don't you dare look away." 21%We are members of the league of men who call ourselves not by the mantle of snatchers, but Resurrectionists. 34%My eyelids grew heavy once more, and the face of my watch blurred as the vexing memories of the past were overwritten by the tender rhythm of my newfound life. My beloved slept peacefully beside me, and I dreamt. 68%That said, the unique circumstance of being veritably surrounded by half dissected corpses did indeed raise the stakes, and I found myself pulling my punches more out of caution for the deceased than the concern for the living. 77%At long last, when we could take the cold and rain no more, he led me through the emptying streets in the fading light, back to the warmth and safety of his chamber, and reminded me what it meant to be alive. 95%
6942173728	✰ 3.75 stars ✰ “Our gaze met, and for a mere millisecond, I felt a crackle of pure energy between us--the sort of sensation one experiences just before the world turns resoundingly upon its head.“For opportunity.”I raised my glass before me. “Well then, Aneurin MacKinnon. To​ opportunity.” Book 2, when? 👉🏻👈🏻 ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ Okay, that's not all I have to say, because, let's face it, when don't I have something to say? What I can say is that, starting The Resurrectionist - was a struggle. 😔 Struggle because I was stumbling over the over-usage of words that took out the simplicity of the story. 🤦🏻‍♀️ Granted, perhaps it was a writer's choice to evoke the olden classics feel of verbose dialogue and grandiose descriptive detail, heralding to that of the narrative being of one James, of sound mind and body, who has arrived in 1818 Edinburgh in the pursuit of scientific knowledge, 'for the awe of it all - to witness the miracle of the human form first hand' and to escape the burgeoning financial woes of his own family, along with their own disregard and contempt of his being. His studies offer him an escape from sailing through life devoid of consequence or meaning - yearning for a purpose, and 'for the first time in my life, here—at the University, at Malstrom’s—I feel that I matter.' 😥 ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ And once I got into the swing of the story, ah, it was so worth it! Okay, one more critique about the writing, because, uff, it was so distracting! 😩 But, I do understand the reasoning behind it, hence, my slight willingness to be forgiving about it, however! ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ The usage of italics was severely abused. I understand the need to emphasize certain words - to enhance their effect and meaning in expression and intention - I get it. I use that technique, myself. But, this - this was overkill. 🙅🏻‍♀️ I don't know if it is the case of an ARC, but the author really needs to tone it down, so that we can enjoy the story-telling! Because it was good. It was engaging, and the characters were likeable and the dynamics were well done. I don't want to be mean simply because of the italics, but I must! It was just too much, a lot more than necessary, and there has to be an alternative to get the point across. Please? 🤔“Our motivation is not the value of the bodies we steal, but in the second life we give them; postmortem Prometheus, bringing fire to mankind.” ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ For I really did enjoy it otherwise. It was a very intriguing if not engaging debut that was easy to get immersed in, despite the conflicting narrative. 🙂‍↕️🙂‍↕️ I loved how the plot built up - how circumstances led to James entangled with Nye and his nightly crew's excursions - how James' own feelings on said involvement faced its own wavering thoughts, before it finally was met with certainty and conviction that it was where he belonged. That it was not only financial desperation that he benefited from, but Nye's company, as well. The mystery and intrigue, along with the perplexity of their job was something I was familiar with before. 😥 But I was not aware of the true life crimes of Burke and Hare that added to the authenticity of the story. I liked how real life blended into fiction - how Nye and James' own close-knit circle was forced to clash with the unnatural depravity of the macabre that did in turn save them from a worse fate. Seeing them work in tandem - be on similar wavelengths, while tentatively approaching a relationship that was more than just partners and friends to something more... 🥲“Do you not see that all we have done, I have consented to do? This is my will, Nye. My truth and my reason, it’s all with you.” ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ And can we talk about James and Nye? Because I do want to talk about how they defined be gay, do crime. At first, I thought James' object of affection would be someone else, but then, I realized how it could not be anyone but this 'red-blooded Scotsman with an entirely unpronounceable Welsh name,' whose easy-going charming nature thrummed with an impulsive nature and thrived on the scientific wonders yet to be discovered. ☺️ They were so sweet together - 'tender, patient, and endlessly joyful' - something so earnestly fervent in not only expressing their attraction and affections for each other, that I could not help the smile that spread across my face during their scenes. In a way they are two peas in a pod - so very passionate about medicine, the human anatomy and the desire to add more to medical research. ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ Nye was so accommodating and helpful with James. Even when he put him in impossible situations, I loved seeing James just lighten up with him. ❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹 Even with the morbid act of grave digging for the advances of research, it was nice to see James' opinion change and then steadily accept it for what it was. 'Aneurin had transformed his world from monstrosity to marvel and I felt the veil lift from my eyes, leaving me lucid and nearly blinded by its poignant truth.' It was not even a hot and cold dynamic, but something so cute. 🫠🫠 I loved how James felt comfortable to be as open with Nye. I loved that scene when Nye felt challenged by him - how he then made James see the light. The trust and confidence they felt with each other - the comfort they sought and the gravitational pull they then just felt between the two - despite the fear of being found out - the subtle skirting of their own palpable flirting - 'it could never be unnatural. It was as easy as breathing.' 🥹🤍🥹 ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ I did find it kinda hypocritical, though, when Nye reacted in a particular scene that made me wonder why he does not share those similar thoughts when excavating bodies that well, did not really deserve to be exhumed, let alone used for their purposes. Perhaps in later years, we might have a chance for this train of thought to be explored. 🤷🏻‍♀️“Yet I must insist that in the end, this is not a story about Death. It is perhaps a Life story, or even--yes--a Love story.”Like I said, book 2 when? 👉🏻👈🏻 ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ ‎ Because I was so sad to see it end! 😭 There was still so much left to tackle, so much more that I am curious about and how things will fare for the two of them. 💛💛 I know that as medical research progresses, The Resurrectionists will cease to exist, but I was not ready to part ways with James and Nye. That questionable future makes me want to know for sure if they will survive what is yet to come. 🥺*Thank you to NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
6666687244	The Resurrectionist is a well-written, enthralling historical fiction that takes us into the lives of medical professionals who get caught up in the art of body snatching. These body snatchers do not see themselves as grave robbers but as resurrectionists, working towards advancements in medical science for the benefit of all mankind. In this book we follow James Willoughby, a newer resurrectionist stemming from a well-off family, and his story of how he came into body snatching, his love for medical science, and of course, him finding love and himself along the way. Throughout the read, we touch on topics of medical science and its advancements, moral ambiguity, self-discovery, and, of course, romance (same sex, which was taboo and illegal at the time). The author has done a wonderful job creating an atmospheric setting, making the reader feel like we were in 19th century Edinburgh. As far as the writing, it was impeccable and gave a poetic feel, and it also flowed nicely with a steady, even pace. I thoroughly enjoyed this book from start to finish and would highly recommend! Thank you NetGalley, Kensington Publishing, and A. Rae Dunlap for this captivating ARC!
7036680906	Grave robbers - but they aren't stealing the jewels and goods but the bodies for medical research! I really liked James, our main character. I found his naivete endearing and his enthusiasm contagious. The band of merry thieves that he's brough into were so interesting and I found the historical information about medical school and research fascinating. I liked how we got to see two sides of the coin and shown 2 ways these schools worked. I found the audio narrator was fabulous - I could just imagine James and his endeavors and I even chuckled a few times. I don't read a lot about body snatching for medical research and I found this to be a fun adventure of a story. I enjoyed it!
6682928496	thank you netgalley for access to the eARC, as well as Kensington PublishingAfter a small slog of less than amazing reads in a row, this book was a most welcome surprise. I cannot overstate how much I adored our main character, James, and his 'friend'/'assistant' (iykyk), Aneurin. They really make the entire book work so well. I also enjoyed the setting - an early 1800s moment is always appreciated and the vibe was very much on point - and the focused upon medical and graverobbing aspects were continuously interesting. But it definitely was their relationship that kept me oh so invested, every time they're on page together it is just so hard to stop reading. Their dialogue was amazing, and the way they become even closer throughout the book as they try and avoid the law, other graverobbers, and the attacks of high society is amazing to read.I would absolutely read another book in this world but I also love the idea of this one as a standalone, as I think the story was wrapped up very well in the end.A very high 4 stars
7112550007	2.5⭐️ i love the idea of this book; it’s set in an era of medical history i’ve always been fascinated with…..but for some reason I do not like the way this was written. 😭😭😭 i’m so sad about that😭 why were there so many italics????? idk i was bothered
7053584777	I really enjoyed the way this book was written. I was very intrigued from the first page. I like historical fiction and this was done very well. The true crime aspect had me enthralled. I def recommend if you're a fan of gothic tales.Thank you for the arc.
7554307173	A bit slow to start, but with an interesting angle: cadaver acquisition for medical study! Has a bit of romance, class differences, and a bit of a mystery. This was a surprise find for me and I was drawn in with the cover. I’m glad I picked this up!
7290521730	I feel I must start by admitting to you that I 100% picked this book up because of the cover. I purposely didn’t read the synopsis beforehand, because I wanted to be surprised by the contents. Pleasantly surprised, I was! The Resurrectionist is a historical fiction novel set in a fascinatingly dark period of Scottish history. Our protagonist James has left his comfortable life to explore his passions elsewhere which, of course, takes a fair amount of money. Money that he does not have. And so, our unsuspecting James ends up embroiled in a dark underworld, full of secrets.Ah, this book. It was the perfect blend of friendship, intrigue, forbidden love and just downright darkness. I found myself scrambling after reading this to read the history from which this book was created. Here was a time period where studying the human body could only be done on corpses, and those corpses were only supposed to come from “acceptable means” such a prison deaths, suicide, or orphans who had no one to claim them. Of course this led to a shortage of bodies to be studied. Enter: the resurrection men.Dunlap did such an excellent job of building James as character. As cocky as he could be at times, you could see that really all he wanted was to find purpose and acceptance. He was portrayed as a friend that was loyal to a fault which, as you might suspect, is what got him into trouble in the first place. When “Nye” entered the picture, and the beginnings of adoration began to blossom, I knew that our poor protagonist was doomed. The things we do for friendship are one thing. The things we do for love? Quite another.The Resurrectionist does an excellent job of bringing the dark underbelly of this time period to life as well. From the apartment that James resides in, to the pristine school he studies in, down to the depths of the graves where corpses were snatched, every bit of this story comes vividly to life on the page. What I really enjoyed was the fact that at no point did this book lag. There were points where the writing felt a bit heavy, I do admit. However that didn’t stop the overall flow of the story. I was rapt from beginning to end.If you’re looking for a story that balances the light and the dark, the clean world against the gritty one, I highly recommend giving The Resurrectionist a spot on your reading list. I enjoyed this immensely, and I’ll be back for whatever this author writes next.
7399675351	Цікаво і якісно написана історія. Багато історичних відсилань. І якщо ви ніколи не цікавилися як розвивалася медицина в 1800-х роках, то вам буде ще цікавіше. Така собі тонка межа між жагою до знань та мораллю.В центрі цієї історії два обдарованих юнака, які в гонитві за знаннями як раз і опиняються на межі між "високою" ціллю та моральністю. Ну і не думаю, що я відкрию велику таємницю, якщо скажу, що знання перемагають. Пригоди, трупи та кохання. Що може бути краще 😉
7565968587	This was SO GOOD. I was infinitely entertained, this concept was soooo interesting. I’m literally only giving 4 instead of 5 stars because I feel like there could have been more of an in depth conversation about the morality/ethics around what they were doing *especially* given what happened near the end of the book. I also felt like there were maybe four more storylines I would’ve loved to see explored further (like Thomas low key becoming addicted to the thrill??? Why’d we gloss over that??). Anyways though, this was a refreshingly new story that felt unlike anything I’ve read before
6505867041	Thank you to NetGalley for the ARC. All opinions are my own.The Resurrectionist by A Rae Dunlap is a historical novel that includes the true life crime of Burke and Hare. I’d never heard of this murdering duo before, so unravelling it with the author was an incredible experience. I found myself researching the murders after I’d finished the novel because I read the author’s note and found out they really existed! And so did a lot of the other characters in this book!The topic of body snatching for the medical field has always been fascinating to me. What I love is this author really did their research as to all the little things they needed to remember. The collar around the neck meant that they’d have to split the body and sell it in parts instead of whole. The author could have gone down the gory route and tried to make it disgusting, but instead really looked through the lens of these medical students and how they would see and relate to a body. While some things like a smell might still curdle their stomachs, they maintained a professionalism around the bodies.I loved our protagonist, James, and his blooming romance with Nye. It was one of those moments that was woven into the story neatly without taking the focus off anything.The ending was great, where if this remains a standalone, that’s great! But there’s an opening for a sequel if the author wanted to.If a sequel came out, I’d buy it in a flash. If the author chose to write another story, I’d definitely give that a go as well. Very well written and interesting story!
7070513884	One of the best historical fiction books I’ve read all year!This novel hooks you from the start, launching the reader into 1800s Edinburgh at university schools and local societies as they attempt to make headway in the medical realm. James, a scholar determined to succeed in this field, finds himself sucked into the grave-robbing aspect, a necessity of this branch of science at the time. James was a brilliant and fascinating main character to follow along with, and I loved his partnership with the aloof, charismatic, and calculated Aneurin. The romance was a somewhat secondary plotline to the grave robbing politics, but it was a surprisingly lovely slow burn that added an unexpected sweetness to the story. The second half had me on the edge of my seat, and Dunlap did a careful job of building suspense as the main characters tread closer to danger. The author’s note at the end was really fascinating as Dunlap described many of the real life victims and Easter eggs she planted in the novel. It definitely inspired me to read more into the true crime aspects of Burke and Hare.
7223060947	Reading this book was like eating a very plain cupcake decorated with flowery but equally plain tasting icing. You keep biting and biting thinking, maybe it's time to get to the marmelade filling or a chocolate chip, or at least a random raisin? But no, it remains disappointingly bland and uneventful till the very end
7288231229	The amount of times I punched my first in the air
7251853159	Came for the grave robbing true crime and stayed for the cute romance I didn’t even realize I was going to get. An entertaining read that shed light on a point of history I knew nothing about (aka 18th-19th century body snatching gangs in the UK). Not life changing to profound in any way but still a well done, fun ride.
6798974906	I received access to an ARC in exchange for a review 5 Stars First of I really love the premise of this book. Like 19th century dark academia, body snatching and the corruption of a good boy through love and the thirst for knowledge? So up my alley. And I was not disappointed! Right from the beginning the mood is dark and a little detached in an almost medical kind of way. It frames how posh and proper James is in juxtaposition to the other people he meets right of the bat. And I really like the slightly surreal undertones that follow right after when James meets his first fellow Students and they are poking a severed ear with a fork at their table in a pub. And once James meets Aneurin his inhibitions get slowly picked at by his unwavering hunger for knowledge. He wants to understand, to take apart, first of all bodies to understand anatomy, then Aneurin to look under his mask, to understand why he fascinates him so and why he makes him feel this way he does not want to recognize. Which is wonderfully mirrored by Aneurin being sure in himself and his morals, knowing exactly what he wants and not being afraid to go for it. I'm also very happy about how delightfully fun the author manages to bring across the process of body snatching. The switching between tense and fun felt effortless and if they weren't... you know. Stealing corpses. I would be awfully tempted to join the fun. And the relationship between James and Aneurin might be my favorite part. They tease, they bicker but it's all build on a solid foundation of affection, respect and trust. I think my favorite Scene is when Aneurin shows James his rooms for the first time. The easy affectionate intimacy of them makes my heart ache in the best way. The plot really picks up steam towards the end and some parts left me genuinly astonished and emotionally destroyed. I did not expect some of the twist and the way they rip you out of the lighter tones we had in the middle of the book is so well done. Emotional whiplash in the best and worst way at the same time. Overall I really loved this book, the characters are charming, the setting is super interesting and plot kept me in it's grip the whole way through. If you like questions about morality, a good mystery or a well done romance, you should read this book! I highly recommend. Favorite Quote: "I crave no absolution but yours."
7062564328	It’s cute. And while that’s not a bad thing by any means, I’m still not entirely sure if it’s trying to be cute, or if it’s accidentally cute? Either way, it’s cute and that’s definitely not what I, personally, was hoping for from this book.There’s really no way around this: the writing very much comes off either as a first-attempt at a YA novel, or even some sort of better-done fanfic (my god some of the descriptions of Aneurin’s eyes 🙄). It’s not poorly written by any stretch of the imagination, but its overly “done” styling lends to frequently being quite…twee. Imagine someone who doesn’t especially like historical/true crime or horror trying to write historical/true crime or horror. And, IMHO, to compare it to The Alienist is just silly for a lot of reasons. Lending to the distinctly YA vibe: the too-cute-by-half writing, reminiscent of a teenager who is overly proud of themselves for being “precocious”; various editing choices (italics ALL THE TIME holy mother of god all the time) that read as decidedly juvenile; obstacles and seemingly major plot points that arise quickly, are of limited nuance, and are just as quickly resolved and despatched—there’s no true ongoing struggle (and actually in this way, subject matter aside, it almost feels more like the simplicity of a middle grade read)!Additionally, for a story about a clearly queer character exploring his sexuality for the first time—and during a period of time where that was a hangable offense—on top of the illegal trade he partakes in (body snatching), there’s really no genuine exploration of this in a way that doesn’t come off as YA; it all feels very safe, and as though every dilemma that arises is imminently solvable. Although the topic is certainly macabre, the way that the story is written and edited together just leaves it in an almost cosy realm. Which, if that’s what you’re looking for, it more than fine! But it does read decidedly differently than what the subject matter and description of the book might lend you to believe.
6934443289	A brilliant historical mystery with a stunningly perfect romance, I want to read this all over again!Set in Edinburgh in the 1800s in the age of the new enlightenment, James is studying to become a physician joining a private school to work on cadavers. Here he meets Nye (love of my life), the dashing yet reckless assistant to the owner of the private school, who's love and dedication to science makes me swoon. To make sure he gets the surgical education he’s come for, James joins Nye in the necessary work of body snatching joining his team of Resurrectionists. But body snatching is perilous business and things quickly turn bad when rival snatchers try to monopolise the scene. James and Nye are kindling a heart achingly sweet relationship as they quickly realise they care for each other more than just being partners in crime.I picked this up with the intention of reading a few chapters and then carrying on with some work, that did not happen.. I was so quickly taken by this book it was just incredible. The scene that was set of this new booming field of studying anatomy through dissections in schools was incredible and the accuracy of the necessity to body snatching explained in perfect detail made the book feel so incredibly real. The hunger and thirst for scientific knowledge by James and his peers, by Nye, felt so akin to my own, I instantly fell in love with them all. The quips and laughter between James and Nye instantly secured them a place in my heart, they deserve the absolute world.
7098686584	This story is set in 1800’s Scotland and James has a dream to study surgery. The university he attends doesn’t offer human cadavers so he seeks out a private university. It’s well beyond his financial means but he strikes up a deal with Nye who works with the professor and is able to attend. Now that he has access to cadavers, he is shocked to realize where they’re coming from-body snatchers. He’s already made the deal and will have to participate or not attend. The history of body snatching is very real and such an interesting topic, the author’s note at the end had some really neat information! I loved the characters and their stories so much in this story. The romance was so sweet and unexpected I loved every moment of it. This has been one of my favorite reads of 2025 so far! Thank you so much to Kensington and A. Rae Dunlap for providing this free ARC. This is my honest review. This published on December 24th.
6997866761	I enjoyed this! It's an immersive entertaining story. I like the writing style and the pacing is good. The characters are well developed. I would recommend this! Special Thank You to A. Rae Dunlap, Kensington Publishing and NetGalley for allowing me to read a complimentary copy in exchange for an honest review.
7673345007	I loved every part of medicine described. James being a wide-eyed newcomer so endearingly fascinated (and sometimes repulsed) by everything he gets to learn makes such an entertaining narrator. It was also such joy to see characters discuss new theories and standing behind one or the other, or even being like: "I'm not against the theory as much as the scholar proposing it". And the progress in medicine is realistically bloody, gruesome, and morally dubious (though here I have some issues with the author wanting us root for the protagonists a bit too hard by making all the antagonists ugly, which, seriously? in this day and age?)But then there's a family drama that derails the entire plot in the last third. A family drama that could have been partially avoided by one letter containing the same lies James has already used straight to people's faces; a family drama that with some strategic thinking could have been easily turn into an opportunity. And here's my second issue: even when I remember we're talking about a young protagonist who does have right to think he owes his family absolutely nothing--a heighened social position of his family would give him means and position to promote the art of surgery as more than a spectacle but more of legitimate medical practice, even if he wouldn't be able to practice it himself. And neither he nor anyone else ever acknowledges that. The only ways of life presented are either finishing medical school and being true to himself or becoming a useless socialite. There is a gang targetting their competition in bodysnatching business that will inevitably target James or someone close to him, I should be worrying about that, and here I am, in last third of the book, getting mad at James being so adamant on living 100% true to himself that he can't even stop and think for a second!In the end I'm rounding my 3.5* up partially because it's a debut novel, and partially because the first half was a great fun to read. Just don't expect pure thriller and you may enjoy it too.
6880993124	3.5 This was a book I was really excited to read, with a concept that I find fascinating. Because who doesn’t love a little true crime? I mean, we have body snatchers, conniving doctors, grave robbers, sinister schools, and murder! I was eager to see how deep the author would go in telling this grisly tale, set in an era where so-called progress in science came at a deadly cost.In The Resurrectionist, we follow James as he arrives in Edinburgh, determined to become a master of surgery and study anatomy in what he believes to be the city of science. While making new friends, scraping by financially, and advancing in his studies, James finds himself getting his hands dirty—literally and figuratively—in his pursuit of knowledge. It’s here that he meets Nye and his team, joining them in digging up the recently deceased to provide cadavers for local practicing schools.I’ll start by saying I really enjoyed the characters in this book, even those who didn’t get as much time in the spotlight. In the early phases, you relish in the friendships being formed and the varied backgrounds the characters represent. James and Nye, in particular, are written with such clarity that you can feel how they play off each other. The author also does an incredible job of describing a gothic, grimy, and eerie Scotland—every scene is vividly depicted, the good and the uncomfortable.That being said, my biggest gripe with this book is how it’s not categorized as a romance. While I enjoyed the subtle evolution of self-discovery, emotions, and chemistry between Nye and James, I expected more focus on the medical experimentation and practices, as well as a stronger mystery element. Frankly, there’s not much mystery in this book at all. Additionally, James’s naivety at times felt so pronounced that I wondered if this could be considered a young adult novel.If I had to pitch this book, I’d call it a romantic historical fiction thriller. However, I see it marketed as horror and mystery, which makes me question whether this was a deliberate choice—because honestly, I might not have picked it up had I known romance would play such a significant role. I did appreciate the way the author wove in a broader discussion on the treatment of women during this period, though I wish that aspect had been explored even more.With that, I still enjoyed the read and would definitely recommend it to those who appreciate multi-genre books. You get a little bit of everything with this one!Thank you to Kensington for this read!
7119496294	In her compelling debut novel, A. Rae Dunlap masterfully weaves historical fact with gothic fiction to create a spine-tingling narrative set in 1828 Edinburgh. The story follows James Willoughby, a privileged Oxford dropout who ventures north to pursue his dreams of becoming a surgeon, only to find himself entangled in the macabre world of body snatching and medical advancement. Through James's eyes, we witness the collision between scientific progress and moral boundaries in an era when the demand for anatomical knowledge far outstripped the legal supply of cadavers.Plot & Narrative ExcellenceDunlap demonstrates remarkable skill in maintaining tension throughout the novel while balancing multiple narrative threads. The story begins as a classic fish-out-of-water tale, with James navigating the unfamiliar territory of Edinburgh's medical community. However, it quickly evolves into something far more complex when he meets the enigmatic Aneurin "Nye" MacKinnon, a talented anatomist with dangerous connections to the city's underground body-snatching trade.The author excels at pacing, gradually escalating the stakes as James becomes more deeply involved in the resurrectionist business. Each night raid and grave robbery serves to pull him further from his privileged past and deeper into Nye's dangerous world. The tension reaches its crescendo with the introduction of the historically accurate villains Burke and Hare, whose murderous scheme threatens not only James and Nye's livelihood but their very lives.Character Development & RelationshipsOne of the novel's greatest strengths lies in its character development, particularly that of James Willoughby. His transformation from naive Oxford student to accomplished resurrectionist feels organic and believable. The internal conflict between his moral upbringing and his growing acceptance of body snatching as a necessary evil for medical advancement is particularly well-rendered.The relationship between James and Nye forms the emotional core of the story. Dunlap handles their growing attraction with subtlety and grace, allowing their connection to develop naturally through shared experiences and mutual understanding. The romance never overshadows the main plot but rather enriches it, adding depth to both characters' motivations and choices.Historical Accuracy & ResearchDunlap's attention to historical detail is impressive. Her portrayal of 1828 Edinburgh feels authentic, from the gritty description of the Old Town's wynds and closes to the political tensions surrounding the medical community. The integration of real historical figures like Burke, Hare, and Dr. Knox adds credibility to the narrative while providing a solid foundation for the fictional elements.Areas for ImprovementWhile the novel is generally well-crafted, there are a few areas where it could have been strengthened:- The secondary characters, particularly the female ones, could have been more fully developed- Some of the medical terminology and procedures might be overwhelming for casual readers- The resolution feels slightly rushed compared to the carefully paced build-upWriting Style & AtmosphereThe author's prose is rich and atmospheric, perfectly capturing the gothic mood of 19th-century Edinburgh. Her descriptions of anatomical procedures and grave-robbing expeditions are detailed without being gratuitous, striking a delicate balance between historical accuracy and readability.Impact & RelevanceThe Resurrectionist tackles themes that remain relevant today:- The ethics of medical research and bodily autonomy- Class privilege and social mobility- The conflict between progress and tradition- LGBTQ+ representation in historical contextsFinal VerdictThe Resurrectionist is an impressive debut that successfully combines historical fact, gothic horror, and romantic elements into a compelling narrative. Despite some minor flaws, Dunlap has created a richly detailed world populated by complex characters facing moral dilemmas that resonate with modern readers.The novel's greatest achievement is its ability to make readers sympathize with characters engaged in objectively grotesque activities, forcing us to consider the complex relationship between scientific progress and ethical boundaries. This, combined with the authentic historical setting and well-crafted romance, makes The Resurrectionist a standout addition to the historical fiction genre.
7044821234	This was a fun read! I loved the queer romance between the two main characters - the rapport between them, the way the romance builds, the beautiful way it’s written once they get there. This was definitely the highlight of the book for me, and if I was rating the book on that portion alone, it would rate much higher. With that said, I wanted something more (or maybe just something different!) from the plot than what I got. The first half of the book, which focuses more on this team of body snatchers and the medical studies of the main character, James, really worked for me. But the minor interpersonal conflict between James and his sister that’s introduced in the last half felt like it was tied up a little too neatly and conveniently in the final chapter, and the major conflict with the other, much more nefarious team of body snatchers felt like it either needed to come into play much earlier or not at all (I think I would root for not at all, but your mileage may vary based on what you enjoy). Between those two points, the last third of the book felt a little formulaic to me - introduction of conflict, climax, tidy denouement - in a way that ultimately took away from some of the more interesting ideas the author was playing with, the idea of resurrection and what it means chief among them. An enjoyable read that could have been much more than just fun, but fun nonetheless. 3.5 stars
7036508782	3.5. This was fine. The historical info about resurrectionists and medical training in the early 19th century was fascinating. The author captures the main character’s voice well (although I did get really tired of the constant italicizing of random words) and the writing style of the period sounds mostly authentically Romantic. I think my main issues were 1) the family drama was half-baked, mostly unnecessary to the rest of the plot and resolved in about a half page at the end and 2) the love story also felt disconnected from the rest of the murder/grave-robbing plot and also resolved all related conflicts in a page at the end. It’s a unique and interesting story, but I’m not sure I feel entirely satisfied by the book as a whole.
7040551119	I expected something gothic, spooky and intellectually challenging and what I got was a cheesy YA love story (enough with the giggling!), some atmospheric 19th century Edinborough body snatching vignettes (these are the "good guys"??), a Scooby-Doo episode where the evil criminals are finally caught and then it just sort of ended.
7120943379	Unfortunately the cover is more interesting than the book. I really wanted to love this, but found myself forcing myself to finish it.
8055879172	when the historical fiction murder mystery ends up being one of the most romantic things you've ever read (+ delivers a new all time fav character, aneurin) seriously i love nye & james sm!! my heart is so so full rn. this novel delivered when it came to writing characters and the atmosphere of edinburgh's macabre surgical academia. it truly was such an immersive reading experience and i felt like i was with these little lads studying anatomy together the author takes a gothic twist on the medical and crime facts of this time period to weave together a tale of two science nerds (affectionate) and how their paths collide while on the pursuit for knowledge and advancement. james believing nye to be a madman but slowly spiraling down that same path..deliciousnye is literally my fav genre of character ever <3 i have way too many quotes saved lol (also his backstory sighhhh he deserves all the happiness & love)+ i loved how silly and dramatic the dialogue got at times, i just had so much fun with this !!and i also adored mary & charlie sm! "he is my companion, he is dear to me. it could never be unnatural. it was as easy as breathing." //🥹 was internally sobbing seeing them unapologetically love each other against all odds. my heart broke seeing nye panic and thinking he would be punished again for his queerness i need them back for a sequel and see them enjoy london together ☹️ their devotion to each other, james' monologue about his feelings always being a 10/10, ugh they quite literally invented romance i could highlight the entire book atp
6848106866	❝Historical fiction, true crime, and dark academia intertwine in a harrowing tale of murder, greed, and the grisly origins of modern medicine.❞That elevator pitch perfectly captures the essence of THE RESURRECTIONIST, except for one thing; a taboo (for the era), slow-burn, beautiful romance. For me, this was the heart of the story.We’re taken to Scotland in the early 1800s, where a prestigious medical school is one of the few to offer human cadavers for students to dissect. But where are these bodies coming from?I loved the setting and atmosphere. The author did a fantastic job of sprinkling in all the little details that made the sense of place come alive.This story will definitely make you think about our knowledge of anatomy and medicine, and all the things our predecessors did in order to advance science.
7658371291	Gothic historical fiction mixed in with true crime, set in the moody and beautiful Edinburgh, Scotland. Add in a hint of romance and we are set!I LOVED this book. The ATMOSPHERE!! It was everything! Maybe it helped that I read majority of this book IN Edinburgh and was familiar with the setting, but I was in love! I appreciated the scientific and morbid going ons of the Resurrectionists and the tie in of Scotland’s real life (and most prolific) serial killers Hare and Burke, who were grave robbers.. but weren’t actually digging graves.. Insane right?! There was a sweet and wholesome romance between our dear main character James and his partner in crime Aneurin, but it wasn’t the main focus of the plot and I liked that. It allowed for some sweetness to the dark and macabre grit of the true story at hand.I just loved this book!
7324607906	This was a truly captivating and beautifully written historical mystery. It was morbid and interspersed with dark humor. The romantic subplot was very enjoyable, and the overall story was intriguing. I loved the setting along with the entertaining cast of characters. This wasn't the first book I've read that brought up the infamous Hare and Burke, but this one did go into more detail. It really piqued my interest. I might end up going down that rabbit hole soon.I received a complimentary copy of this book. Opinions expressed in this review are my own.
6527411829	**Thank you to NetGalley and Kensington Publishing for the eARC**"The resurrectionist" is a historical fiction with a romance subplot following a naive, noble protagonist who, when studying to become a physician, found himself involved with the business of corpse snatching for surgeon students. The book dives into the realm of true crimes with the case of Burke and Hare and explore moral complexities quite well.The story is well written, fitted for its era, slow to allow the reader and the protagonist to think and reflect. The author's research and care can be felt throughout the book and add a nice touch, with medical details and real sense of the historic setting, from the social layers of the society, the evolution of medicine and overall tone. The characters are nicely enough developped and carry the story in a satisfactory manner, complex enough to feel grouned. The romantic sideplot is present but not in a way that overpowers the main story, it's a fine balance to find, one that Dunlap managed to find. It took it's time but moved quickly enough, like the rest of the book.Overall a great read, entertaining and enriching if you are not familiar with the story of medecine and its need for bodies in the 19th century.
6907396850	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. At first I was unsure of where the author was headed and if it would enjoyable at all, but as I began to fall in love with the crazy cast or characters I could barely put the book down. The fact that the author brought in elements of true crime (Burke and Hare, their victims) made it even more delightful. James and Nye had such a fun interplay that I kept rooting for them all the way until the end. You’ll love this if you enjoy science, historical fiction, and true crime. I received an ARC of this title. All opinions are my own.
6955188450	ngl i wasn't sure where this book was headed when i first read it, but as i keep going, i thoroughly enjoyed my experience. i like the thriller-y parts but also all the drama and medical aspects they really make a good combo
6456429876	this really surprised me! i didnt expect to like it this much
7057660836	Okay, I loved this. It had a bit of a slow start, but once it got going I thoroughly enjoyed every bit of it. I loved how the gothic and macabre elements were balanced with the petty prose, well-rounded characters, and lots of wit. And the romance! It was so sweet and tender and felt like a natural part of the story. So much fun. If I hadn't had a couple of migraines while reading this, I would have finished it a lot quicker. I'll definitely be on the look out for similar historical fiction and/or queer romances. 🥰
6567129825	3.5 stars. really enjoyed this one! gothic, macabre, queer - i'd highly recommend! full RTC
7742199292	3.75⭐️
7076215217	I adored this book. It was definitely different from most books I've read; it's essentially a gothic horror with elements of dark academia (mainly given the setting).I thought the romantic subplot was great and the two main characters made an oddly cute couple despite the obvious body snatching. Going into this book I thought I'd find the medical descriptions to be too tedious or too descriptive, but I think the author did a great job at presenting the medical scenes as understandable and interesting in the context of the story.If you love gothic horror, thrillers, or even medical dramas I'd totally recommend this book!
6622664548	The resurrectionist is a story about a man who finds himself caught up in an underground, highly illegal feud in the name of science, while balancing his moral code and his love and determination of furthering his education. Thank you to the publishers and Netgalley for giving me a copy of what happens to be my favourite read of the year, The Resurrectionist, in exchange of an honest review. (this is gonna be a long one, so i’ll quickly note here that if you like dark academia, banter and beautifully detailed writing, this is the book for you.)03/07/2024⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️/5Wow. Wow wow wow.There are so many layers to this book, so many things that I could praise highly and rant about for paragraphs upon paragraphs. I have to start with the beauty of the writing. The entire book felt like reading poetry, with the perfect balance of showing and telling, of simple and abstract diction. It was never too much, while still being enough that the words on the page painted an intricate picture. The descriptions of Edinburg during the day and night had a stark contrast, and I could picture both the horrors of the night and the unique beauty of the day that was displayed. Alongside the general describing, the actual story was beautiful. This book is historical fiction, a coming of age and a love story all in one, and amazingly the ideas fit together like a puzzle (reference to the book, iykyk…) and it somehow is not overwhelming. James and Nye are both so charming, detailed and wonderful characters. I found myself rooting for them from the beginning. Their dialogue had me grinning down at my book, and their relationship was nuanced and romantic and all in all lovely.James’s struggle with his morals versus what he wants most in life was a large part of the story, and dictated many of his choices. He wasn’t written to be a boring, perfect protagonist, but rather a protagonist with many flaws, but many many strengths as well.Nye has the potential to become a new favourite morally grey book boyfriend. He is not a saint, but as James mentions in the book, he isn’t without his moral code. He is charming, manipulative, smart but also fiercely loyal. He was my favourite part of this story, and I loved him from his first appearance on the page. James’s relationship with Nye was an integral part of the story, but by no means the centre of it. It had been weaves into James’s arc as a result of the situation, and didn’t feel forced at all. I adored their banter, and their genuine conversation as well, as the two men got to know each other’s true selves truly and deeply. By the end of the book, James had found himself again after years of despair, got himself a man he loves, and had discovered how deep his passion for science went. Run, don’t walk, to get your hands on this book when it releases. It truly deserves to be read.
6695306163	Thank you so much Kensington (via NetGalley) for allowing me access to this book prior to publication in order for me to provide an honest review of it.After reading a quarter of The Resurrectionist, even though I knew it had to appear at some point because of the synopsis, I couldn't see how a love story could emerge in such an eclectic Edinburgh setting where scientific aspects of the human body were highlighted along with the afterlife of those who have passed away. Everything started so timidly, but I was happy to see that young James had no preconceived ideas and did not curb his desires for fear of society's judgment. He took a step forward and realized that it was more important to live up to his own standards instead of doing what would be acceptable from the standpoint of the public opinion in the 1800s. I must admit that at the moment of discovering what was to become James's future hobby, I had the same opinion as him regarding this activity, but Aneurin manages throughout the book to be the voice of reason and to convince through logical and infallible arguments how appearances are deceiving and how some actions can be interpreted wrongly when the background context is not known. This is also one of the reasons why Aneurin is and will always be one of my favorite characters who made his way with the precision of a scalpel into one of the four chambers of my heart. The language used throughout the book is a refined one, an interpenetration of some archaic terms, with specialized terms from the medical field (as expected) and with expressions rarely found in the usual vocabulary found in other books. In addition, I appreciated the author's help from the beginning regarding the pronunciation of Aneurin's name. If it wasn't for this aid, I probably would have pronounced it wrong until the end.A. Rae Dunlap successfully managed to weave elements of historical fiction and true crime to create The Resurrectionist and I must warn you, this book is not for the faint of heart, so proceed with caution.
6450713670	What if we dreamily looked into each other's eyes while digging up a grave?Although this book didn’t make me go as feral as I was hoping I still had a really fun time with it. The Resurrectionist follows our main character James as he gets wrapped up in the grave robbing business in order to earn some money. I liked the way the story explored the medical field in the academic setting, making me aware of the lack of resources during this era. The crime aspect of the graveyard/grave robbing scenes were so disgusting and nerve wracking! For the characters I really liked how the author honed in on James’s naivety making him easy to manipulate. Nye was also such an interesting character and I wasn’t fully convinced of his intentions till the very end. I would’ve loved it if the characters were a bit more unhinged, which is crazy to say because they are literal grave robbers, but I was ready for some crazy dissections and potential killings. I think the romance was really well done and a nice touch to the story. It was more of a light romance aiding in adding additional stakes to the mystery and grave robbing business. Both James and Nye had such great chemistry and I really enjoyed the way they bounced off each other. The story leaves off in a good place but I definitely would not be opposed to a potential expansion of their story in a sequel! Thank you to NetGalley and Kensington for providing me with this ARC.
6512331380	Picture it, Scotland 1828…A little history with romance, I’m here for it. I loved that as dark and macabre as the subject matter is, the author has crafted a story that had me laughing out loud and smiling as the romance blossomed. I highly recommend. So glad I was given the opportunity to read this book. Thank you to NetGalley and Kensington Publishing for the ARC in exchange for my honest review. Thank you also to the author, A.Rae Dunlap for sharing your stories with us. #theresurrectionistaraedunlap #netgalleyreviews #lgbtqiapbooks #booksta ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️/5. Pub Date December 24,2024
6522938046	The spooky, atmospheric setting with academic cadavers and grave-robbing is wonderfully balanced with charming characters and a sweet little romance. The plot sometimes missed the connecting tissue (is that a pun here?) to make it completely believable, but the characters and atmosphere kept me invested anyways. I’d be very happy to hear more from James and Nye’s next intrigues!Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
7273090423	DNF 30%. I really wanted to like this book, but — and this is the first time I’ve dropped a book for this particular reason — I could not get used to the author’s egregious overuse of italics. The occasional italicized word draws attention and emphasizes a point; but having an italicized word in every sentence is rather annoying. I don’t even recall the plot that well, but I sure do recall an instance of three italicized words in a single sentence.
7643127427	The writer could not decide whether to write a historical novel, a horror story, a murder mystery or a love story. As a result all of the stories suffered. I hesitate to criticize anyone beave enough to attempt such a project as writing a book, but this was painful and boring. Where was the editor to help this poor woman sort her thoughts?
7216932497	Los Resucitadores de A. Rae Dunlap es una novela de ficción histórica. La ambientación es del Edimburgo del siglo XIX, en ese momento era un negocio vender cuerpos a la ciencia. Es por eso que se dedicaban a desenterrar cadáveres para venderlos a las Universidades. El fin académico era poder tener cuerpos para estudios anatómicos. Pero la escasez era tan grande, que debían comprarlos de forma clandestina al grupo de los llamados: "Resucitadores".A. Rae Dunlap logra describir con gran detalle la exhumación de cuerpos. La historia se narra en primera persona y está escrita de una manera muy entretenida. Un fácil uso del lenguaje y en realidad es un popurrí de ideas: Aunque el tema central se base en la historia de los irlandeses William Burke y William Hare, los protagonistas serán personajes ficticios. James Willoughby deja sus estudios en Oxford para dedicarse a la cirugía en Edimburgo. Un personaje que posee cualidades brillantes y además vive en conflicto con su familia, su padre está hasta el cuello de deudas y en general ellos no quieren que él cambie sus estudios.Por otro lado tenemos al "resucitador" residente Aneurin/Nye. Entre estos dos personajes surge un romance y esto corta un poco el ritmo sangriento y descriptivo de las escenas de cadáveres. Esto no me gustó tanto porque desvía la trama de lo realmente interesante y por momentos se convierte en un romance LGTB+. Es un poco chocante, porque yo quería que siguiera hablando de los procesos utilizados en esa época para extraer los cuerpos. Pero esto es simplemente mi deseo, la autora tenía otros planes.Así que podríamos decir que un tema secundario es la búsqueda de la identidad, el aceptarse, a pesar de tener una relación inapropiada en la Escocia de esa época. Me hubiese gustado más escenas de suspenso. Más descripciones grupales desde desenterrar cadáveres, hasta llevarlos al destino de venta. Esto sucede en el libro, pero creo que pudo haberse agregado un poco más.Es una muy buena obra debut de A. Rae Dunlap, porque aunque hayan temas un poco ambiguos en la historia, los momentos de suspenso y horror logran engancharnos a la trama. Hay menciones históricas a personajes como Robert Knox, un profesor de anatomía de la Escuela de Medicina de Edimburgo, este hombre existió. Los Resucitadores trabajaban para él y para muchos otros profesores de la época. Knox era el conecte entre la Universidad y los Resucitadores para obtener cuerpos y que los estudiantes lograran aprender. Lo poco ético era que Knox no cuestionaba de dónde provenían los cuerpos, pudiendo estos ser incluso asesinados para la causa.Es un libro oscuro y macabro sobre anatomía. Así que puedes esperar descripciones profundas de los órganos. Un mundo donde se mezcla lo real y lo ficticio pero que nos hace cavilar sobre la ética y la moral. Considero que la calificación justa es un 3.5 de 5.
7202612401	James, a young, ambitious Englishman decides to continue his physician studies in Scotland after his family's fall from grace. When his financial circumstances worsen enough to threaten his education, he reluctantly takes the drastic step of employment in Edinburgh's underbelly, where his understanding of science, crime, and even love expand in unexpected ways.This book was exactly as advertised (a twisty, gothic mystery of dark Scottish history) and I LOVED everything about it. The awkward, bumbling, but actually super capable protagonist, the backdrop of a dark and dismal Scotland in the time of New Enlightenment, a motley crew of misfit body snatchers, the sweetest budding romance. Fantastic characters, setting, and plot, but the real star of the show for me was the writing. So polished, so sumptuous, the entire reading experience felt like having the best book meal ever. (Nevermind all the corpses.)
7276496176	this book surprised me!! it gave off Frankenstein vibes meets anatomy:a love story! I didn’t realize this was Dunlap debut book! I will definitely be reading more by this author!! If this quote doesn’t sell you then idk what will!! : “Yet I must insist that in the end, this is not a story about Death. It is perhaps a Life story, or even, yes, a Love story. It is the story of how I clawed my way from the decay of a crumbling legacy into the modern era of Reason and Science. It is the story of how I escaped the prison of archaic superstition to the freedom of enlightenment. It is the story of how a rose can blossom from even the bloodiest soil, of how light can grow from shadow, how love can grow from despair. “🎵die 4 you by perfume genius & ill be good by james youngthank you NetGalley for the arc!!
7303296929	** spoiler alert ** As a previous criminology student with an interest in resurrectionists this was fascinating!! I always found the small discrepancies in criminal law, like the technical loophole in the grave robbing legislation, really interesting because of the consequences it led to. Stuff like the FBI redefining serial murder to be 2+ bodies instead of 3+ so they could say they caught more, failing to realise this also meant america just now has more serial killers in general. So yeah, the criminology nerd who wrote an essay on how serial murder is represented in fiction loved this.My only regret is that I was already familiar with the Burke and Hare case from my degree (and also the horrible histories song I can’t lie) so when they showed up halfway through I immediately knew where the book was going. Still enjoyable, just made the rest of the book rather predictable. Loved the setting and the characters though, a really enjoyable debut!
6946765960	I really enjoyed this. I have absolutely no clue and honestly no real interest to find out how historically accurate it was, but it was super fun and sufficiently gory. I picked this up for the plot (to no one's surprise I was briefly Very into body snatchers as a kid as an extension of my hyperfixation on post-mortem practices) but the characters are what really carried. James was so likable and it was a ton of fun to read through his POV. I thought all the side characters were well developed. I was absolutely crushed when Mary was killed even though it was foreshadowed. I felt like the final scenes were a little rushed, but it honestly didn't take away from it at all.
7042073025	◤ - 4.75 ⭐ - ◢ It is the story of how a rose can blossom from even the bloodiest soil, of how light can grow from shadow, how love can grow from despair. Firstly, Thank you to NetGalley and Kensington Publishing for an eARC in exchange for an honest review.In The Resurrectionist , we follow James Willoughby as he chooses to abandon his privileged life as part of the English upper class to pursue his dream of studying medicine in Edinburgh. In an effort to gain admission to one of the private schools in Surgeon’s Square, he finds himself in need of money to keep his dream alive, which inadvertently leads him to become an accomplice in the act of snatching bodies from graveyards.Let me start by saying that the premise of this book is right up my alley, so I’m not the least bit surprised that it hit the spot for me. The atmosphere of this book completely blew me away—I was fully immersed in the world after only a few chapters. The prose was deliciously beautiful, making it incredibly difficult to put the book down.I found the characters genuine and likable, even if James was a bit of a loser—but that aligns perfectly with his posh upbringing. I absolutely adored Nye; his charm elevated every scene, and the chemistry between the characters was chef’s kiss . All the relationships developed naturally and felt entirely authentic. The Resurrectionist is an incredibly impressive debut that I thoroughly enjoyed, and I’ll definitely be on the lookout for more works from this author.
7710547478	3.5 stars. This book is about a young man who becomes a dead body snatcher to pay his tuition. Turns out, there’s a fierce dead body business in London and he gets wrapped up in some shady shenanigans. Romance subplot.
7504754201	This book was so fun and interesting! It definitely started out more captivating and engaging to me, with the second-half holding my interest a little less, but the subject matter was very unique and right up my alley.
6986458861	3.25/5
7537781282	so good for this time of year. listened to the audio and the narrator ATE DOWN!
8018558996	3⭐️ after having reading many long books that required so much from me mentally it was so nice to just have a short and very enjoyable read!!!! The beginning is very Frankenstein-like and then takes its own turn into a fun read!! I definitely recommend 😌
7059096164	It’s 1828 and James Willoughby has just arrived in Edinburgh to begin his medical studies at the university. Having found himself completely unsuited to the career in the church that his parents had planned for him, James has decided that medicine is his true vocation. After speaking to some of his fellow students, he discovers that due to the large class sizes the university can only offer very limited opportunities for practical experience. In order to gain the surgical knowledge he desires, it will also be necessary to attend one of the city’s private anatomy schools where he’ll be able to dissect and study the human body for himself.Although James comes from a wealthy family, they have fallen on hard times since his father’s death. There’s enough money to pay for his lodgings at the Hope and Anchor Inn, but not much else. If he wants to go to anatomy school, he’ll have to find a way to pay the fees himself. Signing up for Dr Malstrom’s prestigious school, James confides in the doctor’s apprentice, Aneurin MacKinnon, explaining his financial difficulties. Aneurin – or Nye, as he prefers to be called – tells him he may have a solution to the problem. And with that, James finds himself drawn into the secretive, macabre world of body snatching – taking corpses from graves under cover of darkness and selling them to anatomists for study and research purposes.I loved this book! As a debut novel it’s very impressive and I’ll certainly be looking out for more by A. Rae Dunlap. From the very first page she captures the formal feel of the 19th century novel and manages to avoid using the sort of inappropriately modern language that could have so easily pulled the reader out of the historical setting. As with Ambrose Parry’s Raven and Fisher series, there are lots of insights into the medical world of 19th century Edinburgh, with the focus here being on the study of anatomy and surgery and how progress was hampered by the lack of human cadavers for students to work with. Edinburgh itself provides an atmospheric setting for the novel, especially as most of the action, for obvious reasons, takes place at night. There are lots of suitably Gothic descriptions of lonely cemeteries, dark alleys and disreputable inns, all forming the backdrop to the trade of body snatching.The Resurrectionist is narrated by James Willoughby, whom I really liked and believed in as a character. He begins the novel as an innocent, well-meaning young man who has led a somewhat sheltered life and who gradually grows as a person as he has his eyes opened to things and experiences he had never imagined. Over the course of the novel, we see a friendship form between James and the more worldly Nye, which eventually develops into something more. I thought the story was already interesting enough without adding a romance, but it does seem to arise naturally from the characters’ interactions rather than being forced in for the sake of it. It also provides an extra sense of danger, as both men are under no illusions as to the importance of keeping their relationship secret and what could happen to them if they are found out.Although James and Nye and their friends are fictional, several other characters in the book really existed, most notably the infamous Burke and Hare, probably the best known body snatchers – or ‘resurrectionists’ – in history. As competition amongst the city’s anatomists increases and tasked with providing a steady supply of corpses for their employer Dr Knox, Burke and Hare decide that in addition to grave robbing, there could be another way to meet the demand for bodies. I knew very little about Burke and Hare before reading this book, so I enjoyed seeing how things played out for them and how Dunlap seamlessly worked them into James and Nye’s fictional story while also staying true to the historical facts.The end of the novel wraps things up enough to make this a satisfactory standalone, but also sets up a potential sequel. This one felt very much like a coming of age novel for James, so I would be interested to see what the future has in store for him. If Dunlap has decided to move on and write something different, though, I will be equally interested to read whatever it is!
6873882452	⭐️4.5 Thank you Netgalley and Kensington Publishing for this arc! The atmosphere was perfect for a winter read and mystery elements only added to it. It was a brilliantly crafted story that had me hooked from the beginning and now I only wish I could’ve been in Scotland reading this. Also, the romance was completely heartwarming and provided a break from all the crimes committed lol.
7238123409	The Resurrectionist is a fantastic blend of gothic dark academia with embedded elements of forbidden love in a foreboding black market. James has come to a small Scottish town hoping to become a surgeon, but in the process of learning the trade, he has learned about a different profession, that of the resurrectionist. The town houses several universities which offer each student their own cadaver for studying. The cadavers do not just show up on operating slabs in the prestigious universities, some sort of black market system must bring them there. As individuals move bodies through the dark city streets, avoid mob bosses and dissect corpses, James finds his true calling and ultimately completes his coming of age story. This was an excellent read, with more mob boss/heist energy, than the anticipated gothic lore. It is well written and a must read by all!
7069213158	Genre: Historical Mystery Type: Standalone POV: First Person - MaleRating: James Willoughby was eager to pursue his dream of becoming a surgeon in Edinburgh, the heart of medical advancement. But financial strain forced him to take an unexpected job with Aneurin (Nye) MacKinnon—one that dragged him into the dark, shadowy underbelly of the industry.While the subject is dark and macabre, the book is light and amusing. It’s fascinating learning about the underground business and the personnel involved. By all accounts, our alliance should have been a sorry one. Yet I found it instead full of joy and deep affection-- albeit tinged with a dark, macabre humour that doubtlessly would have offended anyone but ourselves. It was nice seeing how James evolved and pushed himself outside his comfort zone. Nye was my favorite with his enchanting personality and useful skill sets.The Resurrectionist is a story of aspiration and self-discovery. It would appeal to readers who enjoy historical fiction in dark academia setting. ✖️💀✖️. . . (F)BR with Twinsie CC . . .✖️💀✖️For more reviews/interviews/book talk/promo visit: For graphics, trailers & author services visit Warhawke Design Studio.
6819413242	First I’d like to thank NetGalley and the publisher for giving me a chance at reading this book prior to it’s release.This book is filled with creepy vibes, amazing humor, impeccable writing and a near perfect story that will have you absolutely hooked if you enjoy dark academia, true crime and queer love from the past.The banter between the characters and the humor in the author’s writing had me drawn in from the start and I just couldn’t stop reading. As someone who didn’t know Burke and Hare prior to the book and only found out which characters are fictional and which aren’t through the author’s note the writing of the characters just got so much better.I have to say that this has become one of my absolute favorite books. I love the whole dark academia and gothic vibes and the way it is written just ads to the whole. Normally I don't like books about medicine that much but I was absolutely hooked from the first few pages.I also really loved that James’ coming-of-age arc didn’t solely revolve around his relationship, even tho I absolutely LOVED their storyline. I was absolutely hooked and even tho other people in these reviews disagree I really loved the ending and I’m desperate to see other people’s reaction to this book, I can’t wait for its release :)
6423555813	Immersive, creepy and passionate! The Resurrectionist transports us to Victorian Edinburgh, where the roots of modern surgery can be traced, via the unsettling practice of dissection. Understanding of human anatomy was a core element of modern medicine, but there was one practical issue for the doctors and the students: not enough available bodies.James, who cast his upper class life aside to pursue his ambition of a medicine degree, is dragged into the black market of body-snatching. Igniting sparks of romance with this particular activity isn't the most common occurrence, but Dunlap makes it work, dancing between the revulsion of dissection and study of removed human organs and limbs and the passion James and Nye have for science...and for each other.The atmosphere and the vocabulary are immersive, you feel 19th century Edinburgh around you. The blend of real historical figures and fictional ones is smooth, and James' thoughts shed a lot of light in the cultural background.A splendid debut!Thank you NetGalley and Kensington Publishing for the ARC!
7108658215	I never thought I would enjoy a book about grave robbing so much!!James wants to be a doctor and his family is just barely keeping him at oxford but he ditches the oxford life to join in on the exciting world of surgery.. To get into a much coveted program... he needs to pay but he strikes a deal with Nye and when everything goes tits up... He ends up a body snatcher... science comes at a price.It was an interesting read. I finished it before christmas and it had to sit with me for a while. I couldn't decide if the writing was dry or whether it was cleverly done and I sided with it was done on purpose to make you think and I actually love it more now and I did when I finished. I liked the way the characters all had an interest vibe to them and they shouldn't have worked well together but the writing was so well done that it made sense when it should not have.Dang I am sold! I need more books like this.4.5 starsThank you @kensingtonbooks for my gifted copy.
