515751641	this may be one of those books that is a four star book for me, but maybe not a four star book for everyone else.for starters, it is a combination of secret history and the talented mr. ripley. so if you like those things, get in line. it is about an average man from an average background coming to the attention of a wildly charismatic man and his circle of friends.however, this is a book which simply tells a story. that's it.no bells, no whistles, no uncovering the mysteries of the universe.just a story about people and the things they do and the choices they make.so, why did you like it so much, karen?1) i love secret history. and any time someone writes a book about close-knit friends who all live together in a crumbling mansion and are among the careless wealthy entitled elite with a scholarly bent, but then there are seeeeeecrets, i am already there with my face in the book.2) the atmosphere of this one was more haunting than most of the secret history wannabes. this one's seeeeecrets were more of the emotional, realistic ones, and less of, you know, murrrder. which is refreshing. it becomes less of an escapist treat and one that is a more contemplative experience.3) the descriptions of oxford alone were enough to make me love this one. i dated someone that went there, and i remember hearing the tales of rigo(u)r and beauty and it kind of gives me a little yearn.and while this is in no way unexplored territory, i think she expresses herself well.There is no safety that does not also restrict us. And many needless restrictions feel safe and comfortable. It is so hard to know, at any moment, the distinction between being safe and being caged. It is hard to know when it is better to choose freedom and fear, and when it is simply foolhardy. I have often, I think, too often erred on the side of caution.i mean, it's not a revolutionary observation, but the way she wrote it was lovely; she knows how to express things in a way that is pleasing.I wanted to tell him something about how it was with Jess and me, how I had found that love was a constant cycle of coming together and breaking apart. But I did not want to talk or think about Jess just then. And perhaps I did not at that time have the ability to explain the truth about relationships: that they produce their fruit intermittently, unpredictably. That every relationship has moments where someone says, or thinks, or feels that it might not be worth doing. Every relationship has moments of exasperation and fear. And the work of the thing is to come through it, to learn how to bear it. And even if I could have explained this, Mark would never have understood it. He has always been rich enough that if something breaks he can simply throw it away and buy a new one. He had never used string or glue to bind something together again. He had never been forced to learn how to mend.you know? i like that. i'm simple.one more, just because i think this final sentence is heartbreaking the way she invokes that perfect confidence of children and softly implies how much of that these characters have lost.Daisy grew sturdy and sweet. She learned to say her own name, 'Daidy', and mine. She began to recognize Jess and me, to trust us as she trusted her family. Once, on a walk, she could not quite clamber over a fallen log and held out her little hand to mine with such an expectation of my aid that I felt suddenly heartsick at the charm of her. because that's a lot of what this book is: the realization that "you are unprepared for the emotional challenges of life." in love, in friendship, in academia, in family... and poor beautiful james, drawn into a world to which he has nothing to contribute but so desperately wants to be a part of. again, yearnso, yes, a lovely book, but maybe not for people who need more than just personal resonanace from their reading material.come to my blog!
600968767	The Lessons, Naomi Alderman's second novel, is reminiscent of Donna Tartt's famous The Secret History - featuring a young and naive narrator from a relatively poor background, who enrolls in at a prestigious university (Tartt's is located in a sleepy Vermont town) where he falls in with a group of quirky, overly privileged and rich young people, and learns their ways by participating in the crazy things they do. The Secret History was not the first novel to do that, but it was undoubtedly the most successful and popular example of such set-up in the late 20-th century fiction.Alderman's narrator is James Stieff (the obvious pun will come up - get it?), a freshman at Oxford and a student of physics. James has a hard time adjusting to the Oxford rigor and feels lonely, misplaced, envious of other more successful students - until he enters the circle of people hovering around the charming Mark Winters, a trust fund baby living the hell out of the bohemian lifestyle in an decaying Georgian mansion. Mark invited James and others to live with him - without worries about the rent or expenses, and just enjoying their life. But there's more behind Mark's wealth and glitter, which might affect James in ways he did not thought possible.While the fact that I did not find most of the characters likable is not in itself a fatal flaw - I could say the same about The Secret History - but I did not find any of them interesting. The mysterious Mark failed to made me care enough to want to know more about him, and I felt that James off as pathetic and whiny. The rest of thee characters resemble sketches more than people. In comparison, Tartt's clueless Richard Papen was a much more engaging narrator, and the drama between Henry and Bunny was a highlight of the novel. Lessons also lack a central focal point such as the murder and its coverup in The Secret History, making the novel wander around aimlessly, not knowing if it wants to center on James, Mark or Oxford, and trying to bring all three together.(view spoiler)[The fact that James was gay jumped at me like a Jack jumps out of a box - especially considering that he somehow turned gay after just one encounter with Mark - considering that he was lusting after one woman and in relationship with another! I am not gay so I have no idea how a gay man discovers that he's gay, but I would expect a little more of internal struggle and attraction to the same sex instead of a magical "gay on" switch. (hide spoiler)]Alderman's novel is an attempt at capturing the lost period of youth spend at college, where one tries to find the meaning of life and parties a lot - but just like that time it comes out without answers and somehow hungover. While she can certainly write and there are nice description passages, its familiar plot offers few surprises and rewards, and while it's a pleasant way to spend a couple of hours it's most likely to be gone and forgotten in a couple of years.
3324888648	This book has a number of trope that I would normally gravitate to, a really close knit group of friends, academic setting, murder mystery and so on however this fell a bit flat for me.If you liked the idea of The Secret History but found it to be too complex then this is probably for you.
2220303575	★★✰✰✰ (2 stars)The premise itself was enough to intrigue me. A close-knit group of friends attending Oxford? Yes please. Naomi Alderman's style lends itself well for this: it has a 'polish' that evokes notions of privilege. However, the characters and plot do not convey the good qualities of Alderman's style. Throughout, there is a sort of entitlement which feels hollow: Oxford is not the forefront of the story, and it is the annoying attitude of the characters which render this novel so self-important rather than the 'exclusive' setting. The Lessons lacks the compelling characters of The Secret History, the atmosphere of The Likeness, and the dramatics of If We Were Villains. The focus of the novel isn't as clear-cut as I expected. For such a short novel, I found my interest wavering time and again due to the lack of the story's focus: Oxford seems forgotten soon after the first few intriguing chapters and Mark's house also becomes seemingly forgotten. Alderman doesn't spend enough time maintaining the background of this novel and the characters are not fleshed out enough as to detract from this. I would have been forgiving if I could at least have read about a decent character study, but there was no such thing. This 'group of friends' was composed of interchangeable characters who were so poorly developed that even the author is aware of it and tries to excuse her poor rendition of them by having the narrator say things like 'so and so is still a mystery to me' and 'no one ever understood what she/he was about'. Really? That is a cheap trick. Her characters aren't unknowable as they claim to be, but rather, they simply lack, in all fronts. They are shallows sketches who do not even appear that often in the novel. And I wouldn't have minded as much if at least the two 'main' characters were fully developed. But they weren't. Their relationship was...questionable. We saw no proof or progress, but we are made to believe that the protagonist falls under the influence of this very charismatic character who is anything but interesting. They all read like copies of the cast of *ahem* The Secret History *ahem*. What was the point of it all? Lastly, the 'Italian' factor of this novel is complete nonsense. At least google real Italian names for Pete's sake.
104505286	As you may already know, The Secret History by Donna Tartt is one of my favourite books, possibly my all-time favourite. Nothing in all the modern fiction I've ever read has matched it, so I tend to be interested when reviews compare a new novel to it, as they often do - particularly with novels by relatively young female authors, like this one. There are indeed many similarities between the two, and at the beginning in particular the influence of Tartt's modern classic is so obvious that The Lessons almost feels like an homage. Elite, highly intellectual university setting (in this case Oxford)? Check. Close-knit, mixed-sex (and sexuality) group of friends, at least some of them fabulously wealthy? Check. Somewhat naive young male narrator, less privileged than his peers? Check. The tone and dialogue, too, are remarkably similar. I couldn't help but feel the book was specifically designed to appeal to those who loved The Secret History, but for me at least, it succeeded. As much as it's so clearly influenced by another writer, Alderman is obviously very talented and this is a great book in its own right.As for the story itself, I really enjoyed it but just felt frustrated throughout that there wasn't more of everything. It's so eloquently written and evocative, but lacks the depth and complexity of Tartt's book and so many aspects of the story could have been expanded on. The sudden turnaround in James's feelings towards Mark could be implausible, but it's deftly handled and the realistic narrative voice makes it completely believable. I just wish I could have known more about the other characters, particularly Mark, the mystery of his troubled background and exactly how his relationship with Nicola began and developed. I almost feel like Alderman could write a whole other novel about these characters without running out of material. That said, this is still a very good book and well worth reading if you loved The Secret History - to anyone who enjoyed this, I would also recommend Lucie Whitehouse's The House at Midnight, which is in a similar vein and also excellent.
557341261	Reminded me of The Secret History and Brideshead Revisited, so yes, of course I loved it.
3039139309	2,5 stars, rounded up to a 3. May change later.Seems like Naomi Alderman read The Secret History and was like "What if the Classics group HAD stayed in Francis' country house like they wished they did?" and ran with it, a bit unsuccessfully.Many other reviewers have pointed out the similarities between The Lessons and The Secret History so I'm not being the least bit original right now, but here it comes: there's no WAY Naomi Alderman hasn't read TSH. There's a not-rich (but not poor, either) POV narrator that gets tangled up in the lives of his rich classmates; Mark, the richest and the "leader" of the lot, is named Winters; there's a character named Franny; it's about academia and secrets; there's a character that the narrator has a crush on who remains "a mystery until the end" (coincidentally named Emmanue-lla, Cami-lla in TSH); a gay character has to marry a woman to get everyone off his back; everything is all fun and games in the start, but crumbles into ruins by the end.Full disclosure: TSH is my most favourite book of all time, so I was more than a bit biased towards it to begin with- it's not that "no one can do this story better than Donna Tartt!!", it's that, Naomi Alderman didn't really make it work.My biggest problem with the book was the characters, everyone except for James (the POV narrator) and Mark. Everyone, and I really mean EVERYONE else, is little more than a cardboard cutout. We never get to know Jess, Franny, Simon and Emmanuella. They're there, we're told that they're all super besties that wanted to stay together forever, but ~had to grow up because that's life, you see~. None of it is believable. James is in a serious relationship with Jess but we never SEE them together, making all their grown up plans, getting an apartment together, all of it- show, don't tell, Naomi Alderman!All we know about Franny and Simon is that they fuck each other a lot even though they're not together for some reason, that Franny kind of becomes an alcoholic by the end, and that Emmanuella likes blonde guys. That's it, that's all the characterization they get, and it was frustrating because the main group dynamics is the focus of the book's blurb, not just Mark and James. I WANTED to read about a group of people.Moving on from the terrible character development, the book's other problem is that it didn't really know what it wanted to be, and I think Naomi Alderman was way too influenced by TSH. They start similarly, with the narrator being enamoured by the academic life, and lush descriptions of the respective schools, before having the narrator enter the mysterious world of his rich and powerful classmates and their studies taking the backseat for that. I believe Donna Tartt did it better, though. I think that the writing in TSH flowed a lot more smoothly from section to section, while in The Lessons it's like "Now James is all about his studies, now he's depressed, now he's magically taken into the group even though he's boring as fuck", etc, etc.Don't get me wrong, I LOVED that James was depicted as utterly pathetic and called out for it multiple times (because he was), and that he (view spoiler)[still left Mark in the end despite all his dependence on him (hide spoiler)], and thank fuck he did, but he still wasn't the most interesting person to read about when all he does is follow other people around. There was also a specific trope that I really, really disliked in a book I read earlier this year (The King's Men), and that is (view spoiler)[a straight dude makes out with a gay dude once and they're suddenly deeply in love with them and want to be with them forever, despite never having any interest in dudes before- (hide spoiler)] it's a combo of Single-Target Sexuality and If It's You, It's Okay, and I don't care for it at all.If you're somehow able to ignore all of the above, this will be the book for you. As for me, I enjoyed reading it, and I don't think I wasted my time doing so, but it definitely hasn't become a new favourite.
1756561558	I don't normally bother to write reviews, but considering how little known this book is and how amazing it turned out to be, here I go.He had been the centre, the one who bound us together, because beside him we seemed more similar to each other. Without him, Emmanuella was too rich, and Franny too opiniated, and Simon too shallow. Without him, we were just a scattering of people.I feel like it's important to point out that this book is for a particular crowd of people. Not everyone is going to like this as avidly as I did. The reason for this is simple: there's little plot but an inner monologue (much like TSH's Richard Papen) of someone who's lost then found (more on this later). It's written in first person and the narrator is recalling the story from memory—and he is love blind. He only tells what's important, I think, to redeem himself and his lovers.For this reason, and the gradual decline of the characters, I feel I gotta write this review making parallels alongside Donna Tartt's The Secret History. But let me also point this out: these are very different books. The plot of The Lessons reminded me little of The Secret History. Of course, both of these stories happen in a collegiate ambient, etc, etc, and you can tell that there is at least some inspiration.(Also: it's gaaaayyyyyyyy)Ok! Now what I mean when I say this book's for a very particular crowd (and you'll understand what I'm saying if you've read TSH). To me, The Lessons was written in the same mourning, decaying and surreal atmosphere as the epilogue in The Secret History. See:He turned from me and walked away. I watched his back receding down the long, gleaming hall.— The Secret History's EpilogueI heard the sound of Italian voices from the next carriage — boisterous, confident teenage voices arguing and laughing. This moment, like all moments, would be lost. I closed my eyes, inhaled. And when I breathed out I felt nothing at all.— The Lesson's Chapter 26So when I say only a particular crowd will like this, that's what I mean. All chapters are written this way, like something's just out of your grasp, but then you realize it's not you, it's not you at all, it's the characters. And if you didn't like The Secret History you'll probably not like this book either, and I think if you haven't read The Secret History you might not be prepared for how The Lessons is like—so yes, you might have to be in a particular mindset to really enjoy this book.Here's why: nothing much happens. Like I said, there's always something just out of your reach. The plot... moves on like a life should. Of course, by the time you're on the second half, the entire thing shakes and you're left crying and staring in horror and you're like oh my god oh my god this is the most amazing book I've ever read. Most of it isn't action, it's thought, it's remembrance. If I had to summarize The Lessons' atmosphere in a couple of sentences, I'd say it's the story of someone who loves too much. Who doesn't know who he is without someone to love. And it destroys him, because no one can love him back, really, if he's empty aside from bits and pieces he stole from his lovers. That's both the MC's entire story and ruin. [...] And there are those of us who love unboundedly, giving everything, offering up their whole selves as a sacrifice of love. Nothing short of total love was ever enough for me.But let me be clear: this book was amazing. In a few short sentences, it talks about James, a physicist who's starting his life at an Oxford College, following his successful and bossy sister's steps. Except, when he gets there, he discovers that while he was great surrounded by his average high-school classmates, here every classmate was the same as he, and now he's the average one. And it startles him, and puts him in a depression, and now he has an injured knee and he can't do anything right. That is, until he finds another person to wrap his life around: the girlfriend of the classmate James is the most jealous of. Anyway, through the girlfriend, Emmanuella, he meets another girl, Jess, and Jess introduces him to Mark, different and wild and very, very rich. And as Jess and James' relationship goes on, he becomes crazy fascinated by Mark, as they all are—him and Jess and Franny and Emmanuella and Simon—and all of the sudden they're nothing without each other (I'd say literally nothing. To me, they're empty). Hence, my comparasion to The Secret History's characters decaying during the epilogue.And... that's the plot. His life with Jess. His learning of feelings for another man. His way to go on and not lose either. His love that's too intense, that sparks jealousy, greed, arrogance, selfishness. Which is why this book is so good and yet the story—the plot—is... Well. It's a life. Studying, graduating, getting a job, moving in with your long-term girlfriend, having an affair, seeing tragedy and realizing: Oh my God, I asked for this, why am I true evil? (He's as melodramatic as he sounds.) And Mark's emptiness, and selfishness, and his need to always have, have, have, and when he can't buy what he needs the most, his rage. Arrogance. His blackmailing and sucking of the lives of the people who love him.And if the price of his life has increased over the years, it has grown so slow and subtly that I have scarcely noticed.— The Lesson's Chapter 23But—if you're into that sort of thing, the objective, slow yet engaging and incredible narrative (I mean... I read TSH in 3 months, and that's my favorite book. I read this in 5 days. So it's not slow in the way that drags.), this is a must read. Also, one thing I'd like to take notice of is, I couldn't have read this book at a better moment than I did. This book's about moving away from childhood, adolescence and college life. About growing into adulthood but not in that oh-my-god-this-again kind of way.[...] At last, I was not to be thrown away or beckoned with a gesture. I had wanted this; there was a triumph to it. My love had never been enough without his pain.5/5
4734445558	Libro che si lascia leggere anche piacevolmente, e che però scivola addosso senza lasciare segni indelebili.Tra università di Oxford e Londra si dipana un romanzo coming of age volendo anche diverso dal solito, con alcuni spunti abbastanza originali per il contesto della Dark academy.I lati LGBT del libro non mi hanno colpito molto, si iniziano a sentire forse già i 10 anni di età del romanzo, però quantomeno i rapporti tra i personaggi, nonché la loro caratterizzazione - di quelli principali almeno, i secondari non sono tutti riusciti alla perfezione - hanno destato curiosità per l’intera lettura.Conclusione a mio parere sopraggiunta all’improvviso, senza che fornisse qualche soddisfazione.
2582970107	4.5 stars. This was wondrous and devastating.
1903799273	. : ☾⋆ — 2 ★the secret history + gay - murder. too bad it kinda sucked, though. RTC.
2397104962	4/5Plongez dans le quotidien d'un étudiant d'Oxford : entre désillusions des cours, premières amours, amitiés perverses et découverte de soi, un vrai maelström auquel sera confronté le héros de cette histoire. Ce roman est aussi et surtout une quête initiatique et combien il est difficile de trouver sa place, amoureusement et professionnellement. Captivant et fascinant !💕 l'écriture fluide💕 l'intrigue et le mystère autour de Mark--💔 la seconde partie m'a moins passionnée que la première, peut-être un peu trop éloignée de la belle Oxford mais en toute honnêteté, c'est aussi dans celle-ci que tout se joue !
4323459470	This is one of those books which doesn’t really have a plot, but still somehow manages to be very engaging.
5453538604	The Lessons was a book that felt satisfying in what it proposes, although there were some stuff I feel like could have been done better. I enjoyed this reading a lot, and since I read almost 70% of it in one sitting (it is a very short book tho) I will be settling for a 4-star rating. This one is a Dark Academia that is a little different from others, the pattern of writing from the present perspective of a character that reflects on a past, with flashbacks or another alternating timeline has been done before, and so what The Lessons does is that it takes us and guides us through all the university years of James’s and his friends at Oxford and then the life that comes after. It felt refreshing to me to read a story being told like that because in many DA we have a perspective of a narrator in the future telling us of the past, etc and in here we were gradually reaching the point of climax, also combined with the ominous foreshadowing from the narrator this creates a deep curiosity within the reader to know what will happen. The descriptions of Oxford are on point. With the architecture and the atmosphere, the gothic ambience is constructed perfectly, and the details into the academic life of the characters, particularly in regards to the demands that Oxford puts into its students were something I appreciated a lot (who knew that people had to use specific clothing/uniforms while taking exams!). Oxford is beautiful; its beauty is its plumage, its method of procreation. The beauty of the dream of Oxford, of spires and quiet learning, of the life of the mind, of effortless superiority, all these had beguiled me. Oxford was a tree decked with presents; all I had to do was reach out my hand and pluck them. I would achieve a first, I would gain a blue, I would make rich, influential, powerful friends. Oxford would paint me with a thin layer of gold. James is our typical outsider protagonist that is desperate to fit in. What more, he lives in the shadow of his older sister, an alumni of Oxford herself, so the pressure inside his family to succeed and be someone is already boiling even before he enters the school. The whole Oxford thing is very intense, and I quite enjoyed that, James often remarks that before he entered the university he used to be the best in his high school, and that now he seems to be mediocre at best while studying at Oxford and that made me reflect and realize the enormous truth of that statement. How many students have to achieve the top of their class in hopes of joining a prestigious school like Oxford, only to get there and realize they’re only one more in the middle of other “top of their classes”. Beauty is a lie, but it is so hard to spot. Then after he starts dating Jess, a music major, James ends up joining a group, a clique. Besides her there are, Franny and Simon who are lovers sometimes but best friends always, Emmanuella who is glamorous and gorgeous, and at the center of it all there is Mark Winters, the gravitational pull everyone seems to orbit. In fact, all of this is very DA, but here is where I wish the book had a little more depth in regard to its characters. Aside from Mark, the other characters, including James’s girlfriend Jess, seem all very one dimensional and lacking a proper construction. They appear more at the first part of the novel, and then gradually lose force over the course of the novel and I wish that not only they appeared more, but that they had more substance. They felt at times like puppets, appearing in a play that doesn’t really care about them. Now as for Mark, well he is your typical charismatic, problematic and self-centered leader of a group. I really enjoyed his character for the dynamics he brought to the group and the conflicts that his person created, but at the same time I also wished that some things were more explored with him, especially in regards to his past and his abusive behaviour. There is a certain even in the narrative that I wish occured in a different way which left me a bit disappointed with the development of the story, which led to the ending that I did not like. I felt like the ending was rushed, and a few more chapters would maybe make it better, more believable at least. But then again, if that even had worked differently the way I wanted it to, the ending could have been more to my taste. Overall, you can clearly see the inspiration this book takes in certain themes common to Dark Academia books, and the way it tries to write them a little bit differently than other books of the genre is really refreshing and exciting to read. I enjoyed this a lot and thought it was very eloquently written and I recommend it a lot.↠ 4 stars✨
3565872920	literally, this is what would've happened if Richard Papen (or maybe Charles tbh) and Francis Abernathy got together in an AU that takes place in Oxford. HOW TO WRITE A DA NOVEL:1. Have a character named Richard, Henry, or James. 2. Make every relationship as toxic and damaging as possible, leaving the trajectory of everyone's lives utterly ruined and irreversible. (and i will eat that shit up!)also, Mark clearly suffers from the Lord Byron curse...which makes me very sad :(
103463279	I must confess to having a penchant for this "Brideshead" style of novel set in an esteemed academic environment with a group of quirky, privileged characters who adopt and mould a less wealthy, more vulnerable individual. "Brideshead Revisited" and "The Secret History" rank among my favourite novels and I guess it is comforting, as a reader, to quickly recognise the setting/plot and to simply relax and enjoy the ride!None of characters have particularly attractive personalities and they do, to a certain extent, fall into stereotypes. Our narrator, James Stieff, a middle class undergraduate at Oxford, finds himself struggling when plunged into the big pond of academic excellence. He is at his lowest point emotionally when Jess, a gifted music student introduces him to the glittering world of Mark Winters and his chosen circle. Mark, a flamboyant homosexual, is obscenely rich but his charisma veils emotional instability. Other members of this cult like group are Franny, a Jewish intellectual, Simon, the would-be politician and Emmanuella, the exotic Spanish student. Poor ineffectual James doesn't stand a chance amongst these uber-confident figures and he is swiftly sucked into their hedonistic lifestyle. The first half of the novel is mostly concerned with the minutiae of life at Oxford and the author vividly portrays this elitist, ethereal world but there is a sudden change of mood in the second half when our dashing group are torn asunder and have to navigate their way in the real world - they certainly lose some of their sparkle when they are confronted with real life although you do have the impression that poor James can hold his own. However....things don't exactly go to plan and you quickly realise that these "firm" friends don't really know each other at all. As we approach the denouement, we have a dreadful sense of foreboding as Mark's behaviour becomes more and more mercurial.So, what are the lessons to be drawn from this life of ours? Our narrator James undergoes some sort of inner metamorphosis moving from the negative toned "It is ridiculous to think we can learn anything from so arbitrary an experience as life" to a perhaps more hopeful stance "That man in the mirror is me, I thought. For good or ill, that's me."The similarities between this novel and "The Secret History", "Brideshead Revisited" and perhaps Lucie Whitehouse's "The House at Midnight" are probably a mixed blessing. If you don't like reading about the over-privileged, then this is unlikely to convert you. Doubtless some readers will be sorely tempted to compare and contrast recurring themes/characters but by doing so, you will miss out on a real gem of a story. This isn't a poor imitation - it lives and breathes with its own singular life.
560040750	This book is achingly like reading The Likeness again, full of the creepily, wonderfully, close relationships of Oxford students who live in a big, decrepit house together. All that's missing is the police investigation. Since I kind of wish my default reading mode was to always be reading The Likeness again, it's safe to assume that I loved that about this book. It's only getting three stars, however, because the end is such a disappointment. While it could be that I didn't care for it because I never wanted the book to end, because I wanted to wallow in the story for at least another day or two, it may also be that it just wasn't any good. I need more!
4488374889	Really well written and the audiobook narrator did a great job. The character's are unlikable and down right irritating. Unfortunately, the story couldn't make up for the character's, as it in and of itself was uninteresting and not very exciting.
4206612570	feeling empty😜
7498378442	I was drawn in this book by the Oxford setting—Brideshead/Maurice influences :( —and Alderman had that gripping power that got me invested very quickly. The first 30% felt pretty fresh and clean, a bit dragged before 60%, and after that, it became a cathartic cascade, rapidly devouring me. I read somewhere that “the transition is always fascinating,” which I couldn’t agree with more—everything that happens in between shapes your future. For the characters in the book, they’re just a bunch of kids stumbling into the world, clumsily imitating adult life.Why do I always stumble across the most underrated, underappreciated, yet most beautiful works of art in the world? I have no one to tell. When I did my daily Twitter-stalking routine like a crazy person, desperately trying to find silly tweets about The Lessons, I ended up scrolling back to reading updates from 2011 way too fast. devastated by the idea that no one is talking about this neglected treasure.I love reading stories about yearning and obsession. There’s beauty in losing control, in pushing things to the edge to reveal the primal, animal nature of human beings. It’s just poetic. To love someone so indulgently that you lose yourself, to sacrifice everything until you can’t even recognize who you are. I love the paranoia, the compulsion, the madness. James’s feelings for Mark seem unreasonable—but in fact, they’re perfectly slow-burn, well-paced, and very understandable. And the saddest thing is, we can tell it’s doomed from the start. Watching it fall apart maddens me.The unsaid parts—the things Alderman chose to omit—are so powerful and present. They keep the story clean yet poignant.People call it dark academia, and I can see that. It’s just—their school life in this one is the other way around. Golden like lemonade. A bit too far, if anything. When it revved into Skins-like territory, I got kind of bored, because that’s when things turned unrealistic.And when it comes to DA, we people love to make comparisons. The Great Gatsby, Brideshead Revisited, The Talented Mr. Ripley, to name a few. I couldn’t really see the first one at first (but then, after a little ruminating, I realized that wanting the party to never end is the essence of this book—which resonates with Gatsby. Forever is not promised, but they can’t stop wanting it). The other two is spot-on. It’s like I wished for a modern Brideshead adaptation without even knowing, and it was magically granted to me now. I was confused when I first saw it compared to Ripley, but was gutted once I saw the resemblance. That part where Mark tells James he’s boring hurt more than I expected.and as for the TSH, Only the mixed-gender friend group and the sleeping-around part feel alike, to be honest.First of all—why is everything that happens in Oxford so hauntingly beautiful? I’m glad I read this. I love the witty British style throughout. Alderman’s prose is so concise and beautiful—it makes me wonder how deeply she must’ve loved to be able to write something so heart-wrenching and relatable. The ability to capture fleeting, ever-changing sensations—those that are so difficult to name before they slip away—is incredible. It’s like I was in James’s body, feeling his overflowing love, his intensifying, crippling, agonizing pain. To sacrifice, to worship, and to yearn. To learn from the lessons and head home.It’s relatable to a dangerous level. “A man made of smoke.” My heart was gripped and squeezed like a lemon when I laid my eyes on that sentence. I cried and writhed at the third part. Jess is such a multifaceted, well-written, angel-like character. Her words to James at the dinner table destroyed me.Well, I can only say—I hate that my English skills, or maybe just my way with words, prevent me from complimenting this book with endless exquisite sentences. I do hope people can look back and appreciate this work of art more.
2981136201	A thoroughly enjoyable literary fiction. The breath of fresh air I needed from my usual fantasy reads. It's books like these that remind me that literary fiction deserves much more of my attention. CharactersI've come to learn I really appreciate novels like these. They have no focus on a particular at all but instead plough all their focus into developing a certain set of characters over a period of time, in this case, from their early twenties in university, to their early thirties, trying to make lives for themselves. Trying to hold onto the fond memories of their youth whilst struggling to accept that things have change, and they have changed too.The dynamic in this group was wonderful to observe and watch it grow, then wither, the ebb and flow of all friendships made during school. Although contact can be re-established, expecting things to be the same as they were in school is foolish. People grow.I found James's relationship with Jess so refreshing and genuine. There were plenty of opportunities for him to mess it up, and plenty of opportunities for her to get angry and end things, but neither took those opportunities. Jess was so reasonable all the time, and so understanding of James's complex relationship with Mark. I appreciated her so much for that, and she was probably my favourite for it.Now, James's relationship with Mark was something far more twisted and toxic. Broken and abusive. As a millionaire used to getting anything he wants whenever he wants it, Mark never truly learnt any lesson from his actions. He never came to realise that people can't be bought or tossed aside when you no longer need them. Although Mark's character underwent some major trauma and changes, he was the only character who failed to grow because of them, rejecting the idea of change and reverting back to his old ways. Wanting instead to hold onto his old Oxford life. In the very end, Mark was the same, obnoxious, snobbish jerk he had been at the beginning, just far more damaged inside. And despite this terrible repeating cycle in Mark, I could never hate him. He was tragic from the outset, and could only ever pity him.As for Franny, Simon and Emmanuella, it was having long periods apart that taught James that, when they finally all reuinited, he didn't much like his friends anymore, and didn't like the people they'd become.PlotThis book has been marketed as something for fans of The Secret History, and though the essence is there, it doesn't have the same atmosphere at all.This book actually has the group dynamic of The Secret History, but with the atmosphere of Brideshead Revisited. Both of which I loved, so this really isn't a bad thing. The book breezes through James's years at Oxford, cherry-picking only the most significant events from this experience. After leaving Oxford, the group thereafter going their separate ways, the next ten years or so of their lives is mentioned in passing. The main points of focus over these years are the scant few times the group gets together again in a bid to rekindle the old flames of their friendships.They realise that without Mark, there's little holding them together. He was the pillar of the group, their reason for all being friends in the first place. So needless to say when Mark makes his return to their circle things become far more interesting for them all.Even though the writing was slow and not much happened story-wise, I still found myself excited get back to it each night just to see what the characters were up to next. Like checking in with old friends, just making sure they're okay. The ending felt a little abrupt and somewhat unresolved, but given the toxic situation James found himself in, I was happy with his decision at the very end. It didnt feel like a happy ending or a sad ending, it was just an ending, and hopefully a beginning too, for James. Throughout the latter half of the book, the atmosphere felt suffocating and opressive. James needed to do what he did, and in doing so, as I reader, I felt like I could final draw a full breath again.Abrupt as the ending may be, there was something hopeful sitting beside the melancholy, and I was ultimately happy with it.SettingI really enjoyed the Oxford University setting. It was written with knowledge and care, and I could visualise the old buildings, and the libraries like I was there. It shines a, quite often harsh, light into the life of students of an elite university. It's tough and if you can't keep up, you will find no pity or mercy from the university professors. It's like boot camp for the brain.After graduation we see the characters move to London to create lives for themselves. The change of scenery is described in far less glorious detail, perhaps purposely to paint Oxford, and the memory of the characters's youth in a much more appealing light. Their lives after graduation seem almost dull and lacklustre compared to the dazzling wonder of their time in Oxford.Writing StyleI really liked the author's writting style. I found it clear and intelligent whilst still maintaining its readability. I found it incredibly easy to read and the short chapter lengths made 'one-more-chapter' an unavoidable reality.I don't know what year it's meant to be set in as it's never stated, but judging from the lack of technological gadets and the use of pay phones, I'd say sometime before the 90s.The dialogue was very interesting and enticing, each word carefuly picked to create an atmosphere or add to a building tension. The flow of the words was smooth, never stiff or clunky and I found myself racing through the chapters.Just a small thing. I do wish university terms were explained just a little. As someone whose never been to university, I had no idea what a lower second or upper second was (still don't), nor which was better in terms of grade. Final ImpressionUltimately, I enjoy these plotless, character driven stories a great deal, and The Lessons was no different. I think I would have liked to have seen James settled at the end, but leaving the conclusion so open and full of bright possibilities allows the readers to imagine whichever outcome we desire for James.I think the main lesson to be learnt from this book is that change is inevitable, and you can either run from it or run to it.
2730432507	I am a simple girl. I see that a book has The Secret History vibes and I immediately pick it up. Unfortunately, The Lessons by Naomi Alderman not only was something else, but it was also a book without a solid plot and without explanation for the behavior of its characters. The book tells the story of James, wannabe physicist, who gets into Oxford and makes a lot of questionable choices: running on slippery slopes, hanging out with suspicious cool kids and moving in with all of them in a huge, ramshackle mansion. There, he learns little secrets about them and bonds with the mysterious Mark, a tormented, spoiled, charming guy. Drama (and abuse) ensues. The writing style was sometimes wonderful and sometimes naively simple. But Alderman's is also brilliant:"No wonder we spend our adult lives feeling we’re simply pretending to know what we’re doing. After sixteen years spent doing exams, where the lessons we’ve received perfectly fit the challenges we’re faced with, our preparation for the unpredictable events of normal life will always seem shoddy and haphazard"And "I began to appreciate what money can provide: a waterproof imperviousness to the demands of others."So I will give her a 2,5 stars because I still believe.
4032687748	** spoiler alert ** Sometimes you get to the end of a novel and it’s taken you so far from the beginning you think Wow we’ve been on a real journey, you and me. You took me somewhere. But then other times it’s a result of disconnected and poorly organised writing, and the plot just feels like a hamster wheel. I have so many thoughts about this book— the premise was delicious, let’s face it. A group of Oxford students ensconce themselves in an old Georgian mansion financed by the enigmatic central member of their erotically-charged and bed-hopping circle of friends? That’s a lip-smacker !!! Except Alderman just completely squandered such a brilliant premise; the novel wanders away from Oxford very early on, and away from the whole friends living together in a big beautiful house concept soon after. I came away so frustrated because there were some astonishingly brilliant moments in this novel, especially on the sentence level, just gorgeous and gaspingly insightful observations about the nature of life and love, but the plot suffers from Randomitis in a big way. Also crucially, the sexy mysterious locus of everyone’s attentions, Mark, was not as complex and Byronesque as Alderman clearly thought he was. He read like Henry Winters fanfiction— they share the same surname, which I just cannot believe is a coincidence. Also, the lofty names in The Secret History are convincing, and carried by the absolute miracle of Tartt’s prose AND crucially the frankly genius pacing and Greek structure of that novel. There IS NO recreating TSH. I have read a few imitators and every last one of them is hopeless. This novel could have been dark and delicious and deeply sexy, but it just didn’t all fit together. And I didn’t feel, as a reader, that I was in sophisticated hands. The plot rattled along like a rogue mine cart shunting from track to track. The heavy-handed foreshadowing and flash-forwards were unsatisfying. And the protagonist, James, either retrospectively felt years of emotion in one moment or felt nothing at all. And many of the big, exposing conversations/arguments wherein the veneer is torn away and people are Saying What They Really Think happens too many times for it to carry much weight. The novel contains so many grand gestures, but they just don’t culminate in anything. There’s so many religious inflections— it’s just not convincing that Mark is deeply religious, at any point— which could have been interesting but fall flat. The Oxford of it, the Italy, the Catholicism, the Love Affairs, there are some very luminous moments wherein they are explored with great insightfulness but then it withers away. It comes close to brilliance without ever achieving it, because so many of these notions are shoehorned in, and then abandoned. There were genuinely brilliant moments— James’ entrancement with other people’s lives and Mark’s fixation on keeping everyone together forever, his morbid fear of marriage and adulthood were so buoyant it kept the novel afloat, but then he goes and marries Simon’s younger sister Nicola ??? Which was so antithetical to everything we know about Mark— firstly that he is gay— that it’s utterly unconvincing and compromises the rest of the novel. It felt incredibly inappropriate too, that she is only 17 when they marry, and they meet when she is even younger— when he invites Nicola to the winter ball when they’re all still at Oxford, Mark’s interactions with her are wholesome enough in the context of him being a gay man and giving her what seems like a sweet opportunity for a teenage girl to have an exciting and romantic night in the world of young adults beyond the confines of her traditional and religious household, and to experience male attention in a wholesome way, but this retroactively becomes seedy and unpleasant when he pursues her for real a couple of years later. When she is, again, only 17. This sudden change of direction dissolves the first part of the novel and thus there are no emotional roots for what unfurls. The death of Daisy is obviously horrible, but it reminded me of A Little Life in that it was just wide and lurid strokes of the brush which were not controlled, symbolic, meaningful, or productive in the novel whatsoever. And speaking of Hanya Yanagihara, Alderman paints homosexuality in this novel as a sordid side-quest, without grace or dignity, very much as a spectator with a fetish for sad gay men. I wanted to enjoy this novel, it promised much, but failed to deliver its promises. There were some genuinely entertaining and interesting passages, but they latticed over a crumbling wall.
4460394024	** spoiler alert ** This is the first book read from my huge bookcase in the family room. I’ve vowed to read them all then donate so I can have room for my books currently in storage! Trials and tribulations of undergraduate life at Oxford. This young group of six friend were so different in backgrounds but came together in one huge house to live and study together. Mark comes from an extremely rich background so they never need to pay for food nor board. What a life but it never brings them happiness along the way. They all graduate with various levels in their degrees and try to stick together. Mark is gay and very lost. He self harms and has a very domineering mother who is an Italian erotic film star … no wonder he’s like he is! A few of the group get together as couples but none of them have a happy ending. James the supposedly sensible boring one ends up with Mark after an awful accident ends Mark’s marriage. Yep he married a young friend but was secretly still seeing men. It’s a sad story of living life on the edge and probably just typical of some sort of life under the pressures of being at Oxford and the expectations for the name of this prestigious University and colleges. All in all a very well written story with many ups and downs of University life.
2001927939	Actual rating: 2.5Well, the writing was a plus. It ebbed and flowed with moments of great prose, but it did, too, have entire sections that droned on and on and bore me away from the page. I thought at once I would enjoy this story because it is so likened to The Secret History by Donna Tartt. It does, I would say, hold a certain resemblance to the general plot of Tartt's novel: young, posh twenty-somethings at a prestigious school who fall into an exclusive familial clique; isolating themselves against the world. But it quickly devolved into something else. Something less fascinating than the depths Tartt plumbed. It became so goddamn boring and... ordinary!This is mainly by fault of the characters themselves. They held no interest to me, and were all completely lacking any fascinating or endearing aspects. Our narrator, James, is so uniquely pathetic, bland, and whiny throughout, that I wished an early end to the book itself, if only to save me from further pitiful actions in James' part.Mark, too, I absolutely loathed.Again, the saving grace is it had its moments. The writing was very nice, and I guess the end (view spoiler)[with James' 'beyond-fashionably-late' epiphany (hide spoiler)] kept it from being a complete disaster.
1836969189	I absolutely loved this book. It turned out to be what I wished The Secret History had been, upon rereading it 20 years after the first time I read it. I loved that book to distraction when I first read it. The way life has changed me in the interim, unfolded such that this book is now what that book was then.
3478402742	If you enjoyed Brideshead Revisited and/or The Secret History you will love this book, if you thought those 2 books were vapid and pompous you will hate this book. If, like me, you hated 'The Power', give Naomi Alderman another chance and read this book. It was so beautiful! I absolutely devoured it - the prose was glittering, the characters shining, and the plot enthralling. It's a book dripping with melancholy and intensity. Definitely not for everyone but I love love loved it!
3263837154	This is a brilliant book, reminiscent of Brideshead Revisited. It is extremely well-written and captures the essence of students finding themselves through different relationships. The relationship between James and Mark is full of tensions and the conflicts that build when one person starts falling for another.
4777311487	lonely sad undergrad falling in love with the idea of a place and a sense of belonging and also gay shit? hellofar more blatantly tragic and less comedic in its details than books like the secret history but a massively good time and i stayed up til 1am reading it
2518340976	I'm conflicted about this novel, when I finished it the only thought in my mind was "what was the point?" I didn't find any of the characters interesting mostly because the author didn't develop any of them, except for Mark, but the only thing we know about him are that he's rich, unstable and gay, and that's it. The other characters, Franny, Simon, Jess, etc are just background noise, they seem to be here in name only and I still don't know anything about them after finishing the novel.The relationship between James and Mark could have been interesting but it was again quite underdeveloped and very abrupt, both its beginning and its end.I couldn't manage to make sense of James' decisions, he seemed to just go through the motion as a main character without a real purpose. The sub-plot of the marriage/child was completely unecessary to me, however, and it just felt like a cheap way to add some drama.My main issue with this novel was that the author kept telling instead of showing, and the lack of dialogue, we are told, for example, that Jess always manages to calm James down, but we barely see them interact or just have a conversation, which is a shame, and this goes for every relationships in the novel. The ending was not satisfactory at all either, as there was no closure.I picked up this book because it was compared to The Secret History, and I could tell that the author was really going for that, with the writing, the drugs/drinking/cigarettes, the "mysterious leader" of the group, the pretentiousness, the money, etc, but where TSH was passionating from beginning to end and complex, with a stunning prose, I didn't find any of that in this novel.However, I did not want to dnf the book, and I found the writing to be interesting, so 3 stars. (I actually thought that this was way more readable than "we were vilains" which was also supposed to be inspired by TSH.)
6107900824	Bits of this were really good - for example, Alderman's Oxford feels very lived in and her prose is lyrical and atmospheric. This is, by all means, a very well written - on a technical level - book. Alderman also touches on some interesting themes and ideas - about Catholism and sin, about belonging and the yearning to belong (James' solitude and loneliness vs. Mark's need to create a family, to be surrounded by people (he thinks) he loves or love him).However, disappointingly, she never takes them quite far. It is clear that the above issues are what drives James and Mark, in particular, together. And towards the end, they either outgrow them or let them ruin them. But I cannot help but feel that those were never written with true conviction and suitable desperation which lets the concept down. I understand what they - and the whole group of friends - embody for each other but ultimately, I was never convinced by what I was being shown.In a story like this one, in order for the reader to truly immerse themselves in the first person narration, they need to be seduced themself. It is not enough to be told that James loves Mark; the reader, too, needs to fall in love with Mark. A piece of art that does this really well is Park Chan-wook's "Decision to Leave"; while watching it, I understand why Hae-jun falls in love with Seo-rae - during the film I, myself, have fallen in love with her, too. Reading "The Lessons", I cannot imagine why anyone would love Mark, let alone let him ruin their life, no matter how lonely they may feel.Getting this dynamic right would have been key to the success of the novel, as the remainder of the friend group is relatively poorly developed. Rather, there are the broad strokes of characters. And as James' relationship with them (yes, even with Jess) are underexplored, his relationship with Mark emerges as central to the novel. Thus, not writing it into its full potential is a true letdown.
2242787458	This is my second Alderman book and I enjoyed it as much as the first although felt it was a bit of a 'slow burner'. The story is told by James. Not sure why but it too me a couple of chapters to realise that it was a male telling the story. Anyway, James is a student at Oxford, and doesn't really quite fit in. He's on a physics cause but he's not a high flyer, is finding work difficult and withdrawing from life. He's then spotted by Jess whom he thinks just wants to befriend him - they end up as partners. Jess then takes James to a party at his friend's house; Mark. A ramshackle house, owned by Mark who is extremely privileged, has inordinate amounts of money and pays for a group of students, including James and Jess to live with him in his house and enjoy a champagne lifestyle. Obviously there are parties, sex, revelations about Mark's life and then we move on to life after their fun three years in Oxford. It took me a few chapters to get to know the characters and start enjoying the book. I liked Mark, then I despised him, then I had sympathy for him and think that, by the end of the book, I abhorred him and the carnage that seemed to follow him through his life. It was an amazing book. Completely unpredictable in how various characters' lives developed. I most definitely didn't go to Oxford but I kind of 'got' the student house living and how things are never going to be the same again. Thank goodness my life was more boring that these house mates though!
6569562963	I started slowly with this book, I found the complex words and language difficult to follow and engage with and it felt so different to the other Naomi Alderman books I've read. Also, I got about halfway in and people would ask what the book is about and I would honestly say I wasn't sure. It did feel slightly lacking in terms of an actual plot and was more just following this group generally living. However, the book takes a plot turn just over halfway with a new relationship and it's really then that my interest and enjoyment kicked in. I got into the writing style, I understood the characters arcs and I became captivated in the story and the relationships. I think out of the 4 of Alderman's books I've read this is my least favourite, maybe because it's a slow burn but I also just think the rest are really strong. I still think it's a nice addition to her collection and I can't wait to read her others.
2686641089	Woof. I feel a heaviness after finishing this. This is another book that bears much of Donna Tartt's tropes: the crumbling mansion, the close-knit, toxic group of friends, academia, a death. But this book is so much more depressing than The Secret History. The propulsive quality of the narrative is not a murder; rather, it's the slow buildup to the crash the reader knows is coming. It's a slow-motion wreck, bearing as much subtle sadness as it does drama. Though in The Lessons' case, it is less melodrama. It is much more difficult to take perverse delight in this one's plot (where it is easy with The Secret History), which swirls with mental illness, infidelity, and grief. The writing is beautiful, the settings and characters coming alive under Alderman's deft eye. It's given me a lot to think about, and I think I really need a light-hearted book next.
2744527339	2.5*Easy read. Didn't feel expanded-upon enough, it was all very rushed. I think I would've enjoyed it more if I hadn't read The Secret History this summer - part 1 of this book kind of resembles that. Also, the red Ferrari Dino threw me off but that is My fault, not the Book's.
4136811456	I'm rounding up the score on this one as it broke my heart! i felt so much for the characters, well, our main characters as some of the side ones I could take or leave but I think this was the point. Vibes again of The Secret History, dark academia, group of rich friends and a not-so-rich outsider joining in and trying to find his place. So many things I wish I could discuss about this story but I don't know anyone else who has read it!
4306958948	There's no false advertising with this book.You get exactly what the description says.It's not an amazing book but since I had kept my expectations quite low, i was not disappointed.
2159919543	3.75
3077127107	The only good thing is that it is the first novel set on campus that i read that deals with the anxiety of failing exams.
3059532336	3.5 stars
2508976952	3,75/4 out of 5
3586033189	4/5 starsthis book does a good job having the secret history vibes but doing their own thing at the same time.my only complain is that i didn’t totally connect with the characters or the romance; the later, especially, since i thought it came out of the blue but overall, a decent dark academia book!
2945748079	Picked this up bc it's dark academia and HONESTLY I was happily surprised by it. It isn't my fave by any means, but totally worth the read, had some great lines, and I really liked the main character more than I expected. It's very typical in some ways - same weird sexual tensions, same drinking and drugs and weird friendships, etc. - but what I liked about this book was that the main point of the story wasn't so much the tragedy as it was the relationships. Like mostly why I pick up these books is to figure out what weird mystery we're solving and you don't get this tragedy until like 85% of the way through so most of the book is about the characters being friends and working through school and life. And at the end of the day it's about the MC figuring out that he deserves better. Obviously it's pretentious as hell and it's set at Oxford and some of the characters are forgettable/repugnant but at the end of the day I really liked James' arc and I liked how he sees the world and his inner monologue. (I'm a sucker for Oxford stories too so this was really great for me). It's so strange bc this book is like...UN HEARD OF - I can't find hardly any reviews or people who've read it but I found ONE graphic about it on Tumblr and it's actually not a bad book!! Like, totally worth reading. The tragedy was kind of predictable but also really dark and different but still a little ambiguous. Yeah anyway I just wish more people had read it so I could talk about the bisexual disaster that is James whatever his last name is.
6099093612	None of the characters interesting enough to engage me, just felt like a depressing read and not much of a plot.
2525232329	Totally loved this! Very like Donna Tartt’s The Secret History...
4334506116	È una brutta copia di Dio di Illusioni di Donna Tartt (penso sia una cosa intenzionale, ma diamine se è brutto!). Al posto del Vermont c’è Oxford. Al posto del baccanale c’è la religione cattolica. Alcuni personaggi del gruppo di amici di Le Lezioni riprendono le caratteristiche di quelli di Dio di Illusioni (alcuni hanno pure lo stesso cognome…), ma non riescono ad essere altrettanto tridimensionali. Ogni personaggio di Donna Tartt ha un passato, un presente, un futuro, una personalità, un’anima. I personaggi di Naomi Alderman, invece, sono bidimensionali, quasi delle macchiette. Sembrano delle sagome di cartone sistemate attorno a James e a Mark, gli unici due con un minimo di spessore. È un libro che consiglierei di leggere solo se si ha voglia di immergersi in un’atmosfera dark academia, ma sinceramente c’è di meglio in giro.
6867378875	This is a greatly enjoyable coming-of-age story that does a very good job of showing how the people you meet in school, the circles that you form, are often gravid with surprises -- most notably, Mark deciding to marry the 17-year-old sister of a political aspirant. I greatly enjoyed the cast of characters here, along with Alderman's presentation of their behavior as it happened, although (and this may seem a strange criticism) I actually felt that this novel could have been longer, more of a sprawling epic. Naomi Alderman has demonstrated that she has a great range as a novelist, but I think she was meant to go big with this novel rather than confine her smooth insights into a clipped 250 page novel. And the staccato vignettes sometimes felt a little too choppy for my tastes. I wanted to live with these characters more -- particularly Franny, the Jewish intellectual who seems very close to Alderman's heart. Even so, this is still a fun read.
6793345105	Interesting bait-and-switch with 'The Secret History' premise. I thought this book would be more centered on the dark academia aspects, but 60% through it pivots HARD to the toxic relationship between James and Mark. This book resonated with me personally, ergo the four star rating, but the only thing keeping it from five stars is Alderman's choice of writing style. The second half of the book is EASILY the best part — it's not even that the book 'starts' gaining traction from the halfway point, it's just that Alderman's writing is best when she focuses on her POV character's thoughts and decisions. The first half of the book takes place in Mark's house at Oxford, and almost every chapter leaves you with the aftertaste of The Secret History. Don't get me wrong, I adore TSH and would sell Donna Tartt my soul, BUT... it's Donna Tartt. Any new blank-slate writer could try to emulate her style and end up halfway successful. The thing with Alderman is that she is already an EXTREMELY skilled writer, and her style feels like it's being contorted to fit Tartt's mould. I read The Power before this book, so I can definitively say that once Alderman has her characters leave Oxford, AKA diverge from Tartt's story, her storytelling absolutley STUNS you.We follow James, and through him watch Mark pretty much go insane. The first half doesn't hide Mark's issues, it's more that James goes full-throttle Richard Papen and repeats the maraschino cherry scene in his mind 24/7. I won't lie, I don't like the first half of this novel. My queen Naomi Alderman is still the GOAT and so obviously, I couldn't stop reading. But it's so weak compared to the second half, and doesn't DO what Alderman needed it to do. Initially, Mark is this waifish rich boy (Francis x Henry lovechild, basically) who thinks he can pay his way to a happy life. He can. It's pretty much all that happens until their graduation, and though we get glimpses of sadness and trust-fund mania from him, he's just a fluffy character. All the scenes where he acts flamboyant and refers to 'cottaging' and hookups are fine, but empty. I didn't care at all for anything Mark did — not with his mother, or the 'music box' (something for which I carry specific dislike) or being rich and weird about it. Mark, we later find out, is absolutely delusional, and has never been called on it because the money never says no. 'Mark is a rich lonely boy interested in theology' is the premise of Section 1. He's supposed to be Henry from TSH, because the basic description is the same, right? However, this evolves in Section 2 into, 'Mark is so filthy rich and has been isolated from normal human interaction for so long that he doesn't exist in the same world as other characters.' Do you see? THIS is Henry from TSH. The same, almost alien view of the world is what Mark reads as when Alderman is at her best. A shallow, boring renedition of Henry from TSH is what you get when... you try to recreate TSH. That's honestly my biggest gripe with Section 1 — the story makes room for Mark to exist, but a lot of it is just fluff and hot air.James is decently interesting in Section 1. Mark is terrifying. There is genuinely nothing Mark cannot do, and because our POV character is James, who is almost immediately subservient to Mark, we have very little actual information about him – and this makes him unpredictable to us. It's quite obvious that James has feelings toward Mark, and while it doesn't read as attraction or chemistry in the writing, I see this as intentional. I don't think James loves (or ever loved) Mark — he just finds him worthy of devotion. I think the choice to leave Mark's actual experiences shrouded in mystery is deliberate, since James doesn't really care. He enjoys filling in the blanks, with just enough information to make it seem true but intimate, a secret only James can know (even if it isn't true).James isn't good for Mark, which we see whenever he presses Mark to 'open up' and is then immediately satisfied with any scrap of personal info. He doesn't want to comfort Mark, he wants to be brought into his confidance, and small morsels like 'I had a breakdown' or 'my mother and I were too close, that summer' are accepted and unquestioned. James truly is pathetic, especially in the scene where he threatens to tell Mark's mother about the 'music box' (grooooaaaan.) You feel caught up in the vindictiveness toward Mark, the betrayal of having the affair outed to Jess. But realistically, what the hell, James? You chose to have this affair. Mark decides to come clean to his wife Nicola, who suspects he has been cheating — which he has been, with multiple people. Nicola might tell Jess, who is dating James. Ergo, Jess will break up with James, and in his mind, it will be because of Mark. James. You pathetic little meow meow. You WERE cheating on Jess! Nobody forced you, not even Mark, who just kissed you and asked for reciprocation. A YEARS-LONG affair happened between the two of you, and so when this is revealed, you will face the consequences. Because! all the people involved? KNOW EACH OTHER. James responds to Mark by threatening him with family ruin and never seeing his daughter again. This ends with Mark attempting to physically abuse James. Yes, Mark is violent and thoughtless. James is also in the wrong here. What happens next results in a years-long codependent relationship between the two, and it is revealed later that Mark actually physically abuses James fairly often. The scene this is revealed (pg. 255) is brilliant. The audience is predisposed to be 'rooting' for them to be happy, and then we get a chilling moment after an argument has ended — Mark insults James continuously, shockingly cruel, and James replies with a short sentence before turning to leave. Instead of cutting to another scene, we get three paragraphs where Mark punches and kicks James until he begs him to stop. Mark then walks away. Oh my god, when I say this page gave me CHILLS. I was shocked! I had not at all been expecting that, because up until now, James had always foreshadowed future events in narration, and so before bad things happened, I would be expecting them. The physically abusive aspect of their relationship takes you by surprise not because you 'weren't expecting' it, it's because you SHOULD have been expecting it. Mark has never really respected boundaries or been slighted — we remember how he drugged James the first time they met, and how he frequently brings up James' dependence on his money, or the speeding car scene, or even just him throwing an ashtray and James' head and barely missing. The pieces are RIGHT THERE and it is solely because of James' skewed narration that we don't notice them. Mark doesn't ask permission for things because the concept of 'permission' simply doesn't exist for him. Mark is playing the Sims on isekai mode and sees the people around him as toys or animals. James' loyalty has been bought since day 1, with affection or sex or money, which is why Mark abuses him for years — because he never leaves and can be tempted back. This is why, even at the end, Mark doesn't believe that James is leaving for good. He assumes James will be back.
120360639	James is a middling physicist, who sinks into depression and failure after he badly injures his knee in his first term at Oxford. He subsequently meets a set of friends whom he considers exotic and make him feel like he belongs somewhere for a time. So begins 'The Lessons' in fairly typical Oxford-novel fashion.I wasn't at all sure I was going to like this book for a much of the time I spent reading it. If you've read 'The Secret History', there are parallels. It was so disappointing to read about yet another damaged student who gets swept up by glamorous friends and led astray the minute he gets within a mile of Carfax. Gloucester College, where the protagonist is an undergraduate, is a very lightly disguised version of Lincoln College, where the author was herself a student. There is nothing wrong with this, but it does make me wish that at some point someone will write an Oxford novel that has its characters play a role in and embrace college life - as Lincolnites in particular tend to do, which would actually be far more interesting and original than treading the standard path of disaffection and alienation. Having said that, the details about life as an Oxford undergraduate are pleasingly authentic - I found myself warming to 'The Lessons' because of this.James himself is often pathetic and wearisome. His new friend, Mark, unimaginably rich and periodically a nervous wreck, is a much more interesting prospect. Mark is (mostly) gay, Catholic and constantly besieged by the anxieties of his despotic mother. He enslaves James, as we might expect, but Alderman still manages to make him unpredictable.I think Alderman is trying to say something about Oxford here. It chews you up and spits you out. You're not quite right for years afterward. She could have done it better, but 'The Lessons' isn't without its charms, nonetheless.
2842364127	I knew this is dark acadamia and thus would be probably showing the respective problems, but the last third really "tops" my negative expectations. There's the flamboyant gay (later bi) character who has countless, meaningless sex encounters, including with minors both male and female, then we have two bisexual adults cheating on their partners for years, and a physically abusive mentally ill character. To be honest, the whole mlm romance felt the proverbial fetishization of gay relationships by (straight) women.Furthermore, James and Mark, the only characters with any depth, are terribly unsympathetic persons. You can't even love to hate them because there's one moment you feel with or relate to them, and then they do something totally gross and uncalled for so you're left with very conflicting feelings about them. Writing morally ambiguous characters was likely Alderman's intention, but I don't think she found the right balance. Especially the treatment of Mark's mental illness rubs me the wrong way. There's something almost voyeuristic about it, how the characters around him know that he isn't okay but they don't care about his problems and rather watch him light up and then burn to the ground like he's an entertaining curiosity and not a person with an illness in need of help. They even call his behaviour "obsessive over-dramatization" or "melodrama" as if he's just making a show for attention he could stop at any time.That is also the whole plot, if you can call it that: Other people watching Mark behave oddly. As problematic it gets later on, it is terribly boring in the beginning.
1815397317	Isolated and outclassed (in every sense) at Oxford, James is taken in by a group of friends revolving around the mercurial, rich and very troubled Mark. James is drawn closer and closer in Mark's orbit until, inevitably, tragedy strikes.This twist on Brideshead Revisited and The Secret History will not be to everyone's tastes, but I loved Alderman's fresh take on the themes. Her Oxford felt real and beautiful (and well-grounded in the modern era), but the book made me grateful there was never any question of me studying there.At one point early on I became very uncomfortable while reading, and realised it was because, given the archetypal nature of the characters, I was braced for James to be unfaithful to a particular person (hopefully keeping that vague enough to avoid spoilers). In the end, I felt Alderman navigated that particular maze perfectly, avoiding the obvious choices but embroiling James in even more complicated relationships.Another very good book I was strongly reminded of was Lev Grossman's The Magicians. Both deal in protagonists who have no sense of their own self (worth), and in the power of humans to hurt one another. Alderman's book differs in the sense that the novel remains to some extent an ensemble novel, which leaves certain questions open at the end. I don't have a problem with that - I like that I am still thinking about certain situations, and about whether the characters could have done anything differently.
2164535873	Brideshead Revisited set in the 90s would be a relatively accurate summary, at least for the first part. It's the story of a filthy rich, gay, Catholic, mentally unstable Oxford student who struggles with his overbearing mother, told from the point of view of his devoted less wealthy male friend. I loved Brideshead and I also loved this book. Possibly I loved it more due to having lived in Oxford and been an undergraduate at Cambridge, which shares many of the traditions described here. However, I think it offers more than nostalgia. It's an interesting book about relationships and love. I read it in a couple of days and relished being immersed in the world Alderman creates.
3062951528	Read in one sitting. I absolutely HATED The Power so I didn’t have high hopes but you promise secret history vibes and I’m there. Turns out it wasn’t much like the secret history but emotionally turned me inside out, I loved the characters and the constant crumbling decay of the settings, the writing, character arcs. Kind of reminds me of the creeping inevitably of something like Death in Venice or Talented Mr Ripley but in a delicious contemporary novel easy to consume in an afternoon way. Not a five star for everyone maybe but it pushed every one of my buttons, I loved it
3165254888	** spoiler alert ** A 2.5.If it hadn't been so evocative of and similar to Brideshead Revisited then I would probably have scored it higher but the fabulously rich, Catholic, alcoholic (and drug addicted), gay, highly damaged anti-hero is way too closely based on Sebastian Flyte, it's Oxford University, a hero from a lower social class who is overcome by the wealth .... A doomed love affair (or several), a coming of age ..... Just way too many similarities and not enough that felt as if it came from a fresh voice or fresh place
881535120	In alcuni momenti sottilmente angosciante, in altri esagerato nelle situazioni, in sostanza deprimente. Ma è proprio quello che rende il romanzo degno di essere letto, nonostante l'atmosfera cupa. E' un po' acerbo, e le quattro stelline non sono piene, ma le potenzialità ci sono tutte. Aspetto fiduciosa altre prove dell'autrice.
1375852804	If this book was 200 pages longer, it could have been magnificent. We are supposed to meet a rather large cast of characters, get to know them, and understand their "special bond" in 150 pages. It's like a super condensed Secret History, without the character depth or the mystery. I did enjoy it though, especially the last section which actually reminded me of A Little Life.
3351175693	imagine if everyone had a painstakingly obvious fatal flaw and we beat the shit out of them until it really came out? or do you want to hate oxford and it’s culture more? or perhaps would you like to read about an extremely toxic and drawn out relationship?this book gave me anxiety about becoming an adult outside of university so thank you xoxoxo
3055106025	Like Brideshead Revisited and The Secret History happening at the same time. Nothing much new, but I enjoyed both of those and I enjoyed this too. And it's very readable, raced through it in three evenings.
1459318997	I don't know how to express my feelings about this book. I'm... in love. I laughed, dreamed and cried so hard. I sobbed. It was so beautiful, intense, well written. God it was perfect. Thank you, Naomi Alderman, for this masterpiece. Wow...
4761466121	Buonista fino alla nausea sul tema dell’omosessualità, poco originale, superficiale e la seconda parte da dopo il matrimonio è noiosa da morire.
6418563808	Really enjoyed, like a modern version of Brideshead revisited
6206248878	The OG Saltburn
2454689305	First of all, I have to say that I'm quite torn about this book and my rating of it. I intended to give it four stars at first, but now, having read some of the other reviews has opened my eyes to many of the more problematic elements of the story. So I suppose I have to adjust my rating to a mere three stars. Let me just say: At first, this book seemed like it was written with my personal preferences in mind! Elite university setting? Check.Close-knit group of friends? Check. That even live together, moving into a house which belongs to one of them?? Also check. I consider myself a fan of the dark academia genre. I adore groups of close friends! I adore academic settings! And emotional conflict! And a bit of elitism, intellectual or wealth-related. And it was all there. So I read this book within just a few days, I was never bored, I always wanted to see what was going to happen next. Though I was slightly sad that the plot takes us through the main character's entire experience of Oxford and beyond, therefore eventually moving away from the university setting, the theme of university friends trying to maintain their close friendship and failing definitely resonated with me. So overall, the things I enjoyed were the setting, the tone, the suspense (some people may disagree, but for me, it was suspenseful! I knew something dramatic was going to happen and the characters were going to degenerate emotionally and I wanted to know what the dramatic thing was), and the overall writing style. Also, there were many reflective moments and some beautiful quotes. So there were definitely times where I paused and put down the book and reflected on it a bit, which, to me, is a very good sign. But now: on to the problematic elements that took some of the joy out of it for me. The book contains many darker elements, like mental illness, which, to me, is perfectly fine to write about, except when it's not done well. I don't think it was handled particularly well here. One of the main characters, Mark, is basically described as somewhat "unhinged", without attaching any form of consistent mental disorder to his behavior. In his own words, he suffered a "break-down" at one point, but that, to me, isn't overly informative. For a while, he seemed to show symptoms of Bipolar Disorder to me. I spotted both manic and depressive behaviors. However, I'm not sure if this is what the author had in mind. Self-harm and suicidal thoughts were also a theme. As were psychotic symptoms. But again, I'm not sure how well they were handled. They seemed a bit... thrown in there for drama without a proper understanding of the dynamics underlying these thoughts and behaviours? So I wouldn't describe it as a good representation of mental illness, especially since Mark is portrayed as, basically, a bad person. Even more problematic for me, though, are: the blatant bi erasure. At least two, more likely three of the characters are shown as happily engaging in sexual and romantic relationships with both men and women. Yet, one of them is labelled as gay (possibly as a "confused gay") and one as "maybe a lesbian, or maybe bi or whatever". It just... it bugs me. I don't think it's hard to come out and say "this character is bi. Truly and fully bi."MOST problematic for me was that both sexual and romantic relationships occured where one character was underage and that THIS was not commented on by any of the other characters! I don't want to give too much away, so I won't give you the context in which these occured, but it really disturbed me that none of the characters pointed out how this is 100% wrong and frankly disgusting. So, overall: a very promising book and a read I did enjoy! Some of the characters, I found quite charming, but sadly, I failed to connect with any of them on a deeper emotional level. The most positive aspects for me were the setting, the writing style and the deeper reflections on life etc. Disappointingly, though, many problematic elements can also be found in the book, which may ruin it for some readers. They only bugged me a little while I was reading it. They bug me quite a bit more now that I am reflecting on them.
7919310690	almost wanted to dnf this after the first 50% but im glad that i didn't.it wasnt bad, per se, but it sort of fell short on almost every aspect. most of the characters felt underdeveloped, they were supposed to be a tight knight group of friends, but we barely knew anything about them. i also found myself feeling like something bigger might happen, but the intrigue that was building up would suddenly fall flat, chapters often ending in a sort of 'suggestion', which sometimes i just didn't feel like stopping by and figuring it out. im not sure if it's a me problem or if the author just knew more than us and forgot to reveal it fully. this took a while to get through because every time i put down the book i would completely forget what was going on, even forgeting the characters' names when i picked it up later.some of the things that happened in this first half didn't even feel like they mattered as much later on, though they gave of the vibe of importance at first. once again i'm not sure if i just didn't care enough or if the author actually forgot to dot her i's. maybe she just wanted to recreate a vibe similar to the secret history, which in a lot of ways she succeded in, but some parts felt almost unnecessary or unfinished.however☝️it turned out to be so much better in the second half. the remaining 50% i read in one sitting because shit actually started to go down. one thing after the other just started piling up and moving the plot further in a much more interesting way. it also felt like it was crafted way better, a lot of foreshadowing that revealed itself in a very satisfactory way. we got a better glimpse at the other characters, their pressence feeling much more purposeful. i also enjoyed the way the relationships were developing between the main characters. i felt as though they really fit them and made sense. im glad for how it all turned out for jess because she was my favourite.another plus for the entirety of the book was the prose. there were a lot of paragraphs that i felt like highlighting, some for the way they fell nicely with the plot and others for being quite thought provoking. though i'm not a huge fan of first person pov, i felt like it was done very well here, not making us go through insane amounts of rambling on james's part and leading us through the story with just enough insight on his (pathetic) mind.overall, i think this book is worth a read and will stay with me for a while. for a more dedicated reader it could be a one day read, maybe then the first half wouldn't even feel as lacking.
7714384237	Throughout the book, the story is told from the point of view of James, a university student who feels absolutely out of his depth in a new high-class environment. Then he meets Mark, a filthy rich fellow student who offers James and a few others to stay in his house while they study. The narration follows the students through university and then into their thirties, showing the ways in which James finds himself tangled inextricably in Mark's life.First things first: you will not like James. Despite seeming selfish, he appears incapable of making any decision that benefits him, whether that's concerning his studies or his relationships. Time after time, I found myself willing him to make just one good choice, all the while knowing he would not, and that is a testament to Alderman's character-building ability. I disliked James and hated Mark, but I felt something about all of the characters in this novel, even the most minor. I kept reading because I was so interested in what happened next to James, wishing some happy ending upon him.(view spoiler)[Does he get that happy ending? It's left to the reader to decide; after leaving the abusive relationship he has been in with Mark for years in the south of Italy, a chance encounter with an old friend spurs James to leave Mark and go home to England. Given that he has essentially been replaced by a string of teenage boys and raucous parties, and that Mark has been physically abusing him for years, this seems to be the first choice James makes to better his own life. (hide spoiler)]This is not a queer love story. There are queer characters in it, yes, but there is no romance about the core relationship. We aren't meant to see (view spoiler)[James and Mark's life together (hide spoiler)] as a romantic ideal, because it isn't. Reviewers who are disappointed about a queer romance being abusive should probably take a step back and look at the novel as a whole, because it's not about love. This is a story about how wealth and privilege can totally isolate people from their peers, how money corrupts and the consequences of entitlement. The relationships aren't a criticism of queer love; they're a criticism of the class divide. It just happens to be that the couple involved is gay.I read the book in one sitting and thought lots of things about it. It was still on my mind hours afterwards. The Lessons captivated me from start to finish, so I can only give it five stars.
