141961090	What I learned from this book (in no particular order):1. Victory or defeat in ancient Greek wars is primarily the result of marital spats and/or petty sibling rivalry in Zeus and Hera’s dysfunctional divine household.2. Zeus “the father of gods and men” is a henpecked husband who is also partial to domestic abuse.3. If you take a pretty girl who is the daughter of a priest of Apollo as war booty and refuse to have her ransomed, Apollo will rain plague on your troops. And he won’t be appeased until you return the girl and throw him a ginormous BBQ party involving hundreds of cattle at his temple.4. If an arrow or a spear were thrown at you in battle, more often than not, it would land on your nipple or thereabout. Or alternatively, it would pierce your helmet and splatter your brain.5. Paris is a proper guy’s name, not just a name for capital cities or bratty heiresses.6. Brad Pitt in man skirt* Achilles is the badassest warrior there ever was.7. Real men eat red meat, specifically: a. sheep chines; b. fat goats; and c. the long back cuts of a full-grown pig, marbled with lard.8. The most valuable booty are (in no particular order): a. bronze tripods (each worth 12 oxens) and armors; b. swift war stallions; and c. pretty women (each worth 4 oxens, if also skilled in crafts). Lesbians are particularly prized. 9. There is nothing more glorious for a warrior than to sack enemy cities, plunder their wealth, kill all their men, bed their pretty women and enslave their children. 10. The only men who matter are warriors, but if you are a woman, the range of roles that you could play is rather more diverse. You could be:a. a runaway wife who sparks a cosmic battle between your thuggish hubby’s city-state and your cowardly boyfriend’s (1);b. a war booty with a bad case of Stockholm Syndrome (2);c. a manipulative uber bitch (who also happens to be a goddess) (3);d. a long-suffering wife and mother (4).(1) Helen (2) Briseis (3) Hera (4) AndromacheBut whatever role you choose to play, you will still be the bone of contention between men and the armies that they lead. All the major conflicts in the story are triggered by women, or specifically by their sexuality: Helen’s elopement with Paris launched a thousand Argive ships against Troy; Agamemnon’s desire to bed Briseis, Achilles’ lawful prize, caused a nearly unhealable rift between them; and Hector’s desire to protect his wife from the dismal fate of being an Argive sex slave inspired him to fight Achilles to the death. Homer’s mortal women might be meek and mild, but his goddesses can kick ass with the best of them, and even occasionally best their male counterparts: Zeus is not above being manipulated by Hera, and Ares the God of War actually got whacked on the head by Athena. *Troy, Brad Pitt, Eric Bana, Warner Bros. 2004.What I find most surprising about the Iliad is the amount of graphic, X-rated violence that it contains. The violence is not the biblical slaying and smiting, but something much more voyeuristically gory:“…the one Peneleos lanced beneath the brows, down to the eyes' roots and scooped an eyeball out --- the spear cut clean through the socket, out behind the nape and backward down he sat, both hands stretched wide as Peneleos, quickly drawing his whetted sword, hacked him square in the neck and lopped his head and down on the ground it tumbled, helmet and all. But the big spear's point still stuck in the eye socket ---."I imagine that this kind of anatomically precise, brain-splattering, gut-spilling action scenes made the Iliad popular with the Romans, who routinely went to the Colosseum to watch gladiators hack each other to death, but there is only so much of it that I could take in one sitting, which is why it took me almost three months to finish it. It is not that I’m particularly sensitive to fictional death and dismemberment --- and after all, this book is a war book --- but the sheer amount of such scenes, as well as their mind-numbing repetitiveness made for tedious reading. It doesn’t help that many of these deaths happened to seemingly throwaway characters, barely introduced in three or four lines, merely to be summarily (and gorily) dispatched in another half a dozen lines on the same page. The Iliad is assumed to be the written version of a much older oral poem, and such characters might represent collective memories of real Bronze Age warriors, but by Zeus, hundreds of pages of them being hacked, cleaved and skewered to death almost did me in.Now, what is the purpose of such meticulously catalogued carnage? Was Homer trying to present War with all its attendant horrors to shock his audience into pacifism? Or was the old guy just trying to write an 8th century BCE equivalent of a blockbuster action-adventure movie with enough gore to satisfy his young male demographic? The Iliad both celebrates and laments the warrior spirit: the haughty pride and terrible thirst for vengeance and plunder that set men to distant shores, intent on razing cities and putting its inhabitants to slaughter, but also the stark, tragic consequences of such acts. I actually find the gods’ politicking and manipulations more interesting than the actual war. The Greek gods are blissfully free of any human notion of morality --- which makes the problem of theodicy much more simpler to solve than in the Judeo-Christian model. The Olympian gods do not move in mysterious ways: they are moved by caprice and petty grievances. Why did we suffer such an ignominious defeat, despite all that we had done to win Zeus’ favor? Well, it happened that just before the battle was about to begin, Hera seduced him and subsequently put him to sleep with the help of Hypnos, whom she bribed with one of the Graces. A perfectly logical and very human explanation.The story gets much more interesting in the last five books. The Olympian gods entered into the fray and the effect is sometimes like watching WWE SmackDown: “Bloody Ares lunged at it now with giant lance and Athena backed away, her powerful hand heftinga boulder off the plain, black, jagged, a ton weightthat men in the old days planted there to make off plowland ---Pallas hurled that boundary-stone at Ares, struck his neck,loosed his limbs, and down he crashed and out over seven acressprawled the enormous god and his mane dragged in the dust.”Or maybe an episode of Super Friends :“How do you have the gall, you shameless bitch,to stand and fight me here? ….But since you’d like a lesson in warfare, Artemis,just to learn, to savor how much stronger I amwhen you engage my power ---“The gods are “deathless”, so you know that there won’t be any lasting harm from their catfight, but the cost of battle to all too mortal men is heavy indeed. This was a time when war was as elemental as they come: no mercy was shown to the enemy on the battlefield, save one that pertained to a warrior’s honor, which was to be buried with full honors by his family and comrades. When mighty, “stallion-breaking” Hector finally succumbed to Achilles in a strangely anticlimactic duel, his father Priam went to Achilles’ camp and“kneeling down beside Achilles, clasped his kneesand kissed his hands, those terrible, man-killing handsthat had slaughtered Priam’s many sons in battle.”Troy’s old king begged for his son’s body, and in the magnificent, poignant last book, Homer showed us the real cost of war, both on the vanquished and the triumphant. By the will of the gods, Achilles’ death would soon follow: his destiny was ultimately no different from the rest of tragic humanity, fated to suffer and die by callous, immoral gods for causes that were entirely beyond their ken.“So the immortals spun our lives that we, we wretched menlive on to bear such torments ---“
4388262495	welcome to...THE APRILIAD!for those of you who are new here and do not yet feel the existential dread and heart-stopping moroseness that a title + month pun inspires in the hearts of many... 1) hi. and 2) you have been cursed to stumble upon yet another installment of PROJECT LONG CLASSICS, in which i divide up an intimidating book into skinny and appealing chunks, dispersed over the course of a month.in this case, this stems from one of my defining personality traits: pretending that someday i'll reread the million-page classics i half-read in school.but now i'm doing it.let's get into it.BOOK I: PLAGUE AND WRATHi love that the greek gods had nothing better to do than mess with human rivalries. it's like if you were allowed to pick fights between people while you watched reality tv.BOOK II: A DREAM, A TESTING AND THE CATALOGUE OF SHIPSthis chapter was roughly 60% roll call and i have to say...homer, if you think i'm remembering ANY of these names, you are in for a posthumous surprise.BOOK III: A DUEL AND A TROJAN VIEW OF THE GREEKSok...the helen stuff is sadder than i remember...on a lighter note you have to respect homer's commitment to the wartime #OOTD.BOOK IV: THE OATH IS BROKEN AND BATTLE JOINEDif i were SHOT by an ARROW and everyone wanted to stand around and poetically recap what had happened for paragraphs on end...i would freak the hell out.and i certainly wouldn't be all "it isn't mortal because of my sick-ass armor, don't worry about it."BOOK V: DIOMEDES' HEROICShuuuuge chapter for fans of tongues getting cut off at the root.BOOK VI: HECTOR AND ANDROMACHEhelen calling herself a "cold, evil-minded slut" and then going on to discuss how her husband is brainless and annoying...kind of a slay.BOOK VII: AJAX FIGHTS HECTORyou have to respect homer — that is a CRAZY matchup for this early in the game. getting the big names out there early.menelaus really catching strays out here...he's the only one brave enough to say he'll fight hector and then agamemnon gets up and calls him old and washed up in front of everyone... #JusticeForOlympian-BredMenelausBOOK VIII: HECTOR TRIUMPHANTpretty quick turnaround on triumph. hector just got his ass beat by ajax in front of everyone iircthis chapter alone uses the insults "cry-baby" and "barefaced bitch." the ancient greeks: they're just like us.BOOK IX: THE EMBASSY TO ACHILLESfolks...we're 20 days behind.i don't know how this happened, but i'm guessing a combination of ennui, laziness, self-pity, distraction, a girls' trip to miami, and a hero's journey of my own involving frozen oreos and learning how to play poker.but that's just a guess. time to play catchup - 7 days left in april and 15 books left to go!achilles, petty king.BOOK X: DIOMEDES AND ODYSSEUS: THE NIGHT ATTACKi'm going to be honest — this is way, way too many names for me to be keeping active track of who belongs to which long lost city-state. let alone which gods are fans of which one.BOOK XI: ACHILLES TAKES NOTEachilles is like...the original person who says they're into self care but is actually just putting an amazing PR spin on being truly selfish and a nightmare to be around.another crazy bloody chapter. and not in the british way.although i guess that too.BOOK XII: HECTOR STORMS THE WALLthis book loves nothing more than having one character say two full paragraphs of dialogue, then having another character parrot the exact same two paragraphs to another audience. it's very me when i'm trying to hit word count-coded.BOOK XIII: THE BATTLE AT THE SHIPSliterally the only way that the hundreds of character names in this could be harder to track is if it were being read aloud.which is, you know. the intention.BOOK XIV: ZEUS OUTMANOEUVREDlook at that fancy spelling. we're in business.hera is truly #goals in this chapter...i want to spend multiple pages getting all dressed up and be best friends with Sleep. as is we're barely even warm acquaintances.although i guess your husband listing the various hot women he's slept with and expecting you to be flattered is not ideal.BOOK XV: THE GREEKS AT BAYimagine getting killed by a dart to the nipple...tough way to go out.BOOK XVI: THE DEATH OF PATROCLUSuh oh. we got here faster than i remembered.oh, patroclus...you either live slaying or live long along to die seeing yourself become slayed. as the saying goes. (this works on 2 levels, because war is happening and also because patroclus is cool.)BOOK XVII: THE STRUGGLE OVER PATROCLUSmess with the body of patroclus and your brain WILL ooze bloody out of the crest-socket...i know that's right!!! patroclus hive we stay winningBOOK XVIII: ACHILLES' DECISIONuh oh hector!!!!! get your ass ready!!! here the boy comes!!we just have a dozen pages of the most stunning and poetic and emotive writing of all time to get through first. but then we're on our way.BOOK IX: THE FEUD ENDSyou might think that if war is raging and we have bodies to collect and there's stolen armor on the lose and the battle is about to be lost that we DON'T have time for 30 pages of emotional exploration via dialogue. rookie mistake.BOOK XX: ACHILLES ON THE RAMPAGEi'm gonna say it...go off, king.also extremely funny to be pleading for your life and fairly convinced it's going to work because you're the same age as your opponent. fellow 25-year-olds, we are in a permanent truce!BOOK XXI: ACHILLES FIGHTS THE RIVERhe's just that good.excellent strategy to hear someone's whole life story, all their suffering and sadnesses, plus YOUR involvement in it, and just go "idiot." afterward. this book is like a how-to guide for absolute sass at this point.BOOK XXII: THE DEATH OF HECTORyou read this title and you're all hell yeah and then you remember that little scene by the wall with the baby freaked out at the helmet and the wife and and and...i see what you did there, homer.and it's only slightly undercut by the beginning of this chapter being about how hector saw achilles and ran away and achilles had to chase him around the city limits thrice.BOOK XXIII: THE FUNERAL AND THE GAMESkind of a tough itinerary but okay.it is a testament to the power and beauty of the conversation between patroclus' spirit and achilles that the reader only spends some time like "okay...kind of insane that we're doing the olympics right now."BOOK XXIV: PRIAM AND ACHILLESoh, the humanity!OVERALLusually i find the various installments of this project fairly easy to read, because of the whole They Are Very Short thing, but this never ended up feeling effortless. that's fine — what it did feel was incredibly evocative and impressive, a bajillion years after its writing.rating: 4
397225900	3½ starsTwo mysteries were solved by my finally finishing The Iliad. 1) It is so obvious why these Ancient Greek stories have survived for so many years-- it's all gory violence and sex. Homer tapped into these marketing tools early. 2) I now understand why puritanical attitudes toward female sexuality developed. Pretty much everything bad that happens is caused by Helen of Troy - "slut that I am" - running off with Paris, and Hera seducing Zeus. The ancients must have read this and been like "please, girls, just... don't".Also: It seems I may have been too harsh with Sarah J. Maas and her mist-rising, earth-shaking sex scenes. Clearly she was channeling Homer: “The son of Cronus spoke and took his wife in his arms; and the divine earth sent up spring flowers beneath them, dewy clover and crocuses and a soft and crowded bed of hyacinths, to lift them off the ground. In this they lay, covered by a beautiful golden cloud, from which a rain of glistening dewdrops fell.” It's taken me so long to read this because, every time I tried to start, I kept comparing it to The Odyssey, which I like much more. Odysseus's journey and encounters with creatures such as cannibal giants are very entertaining. And, when it comes down to it, I can only enjoy so many war scenes. Seeing as The Iliad is all about the Trojan War, there are a lot of war scenes.BUT it is saved by the Greek gods. What a ridiculous bickering soap opera the Greek pantheon is. I genuinely burst out laughing multiple times. I like the Greek gods because they are so flawed and jealous and vindictive and, um, human. Hera, especially, is a piece of work. I love her. Sometimes you have to wonder what was going through the heads of Ancient Greeks when this is how they imagined their gods. From Hera calling Artemis a "shameless bitch" like something out of Mean Girls, to all the gods supporting their favourite team (Greek or Trojan) in the war like it's a damn football match. The Iliad gets better in the last eight books. It is more of a struggle in the beginning (mainly books 4-13) because there are some pages that blend together in a stream of similar-sounding Greek and Trojan men stabbing each other with spears. Often in the nipple or buttocks, too, which seems… peculiar.I'll stop being silly, though. It is a remarkable - if admittedly sexist - work. It's strange to think how themes and values that were important 3,000 years ago are still important today. I don't know if Homerian spoilers are a thing, but I'll just say that the one death, the death of the story can still be felt so very deeply all these years after its writing. The only thing more tragic than losing the one you love most is knowing you could have prevented it.I was disappointed my library didn’t have the Caroline Alexander translation, which is the first English translation by a woman, but Rieu’s Translation was fantastic. Very smooth reading, unlike another recent read of mine - The Epic of Gilgamesh. I'm glad I finally read it.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
58776632	Pablo Picasso spent his entire life trying desperately to do something new, something unique. He moved from style to style, mastering and then abandoning both modern and classical methods, even trying to teach his trained artist's hand to paint like a child.In 1940, four French teens and a dog stumbled upon a cave that had lain hidden for 16,000 years. Inside, they found the walls covered in beautiful drawings of men and animals. When the Lascaux caves were opened to the public, Pablo Picasso visited them, and as he stared at the prehistoric hunting scenes, was heard to remark in a despondent tone: "We have invented nothing".The Iliad is equally as humbling to a writer, as complex, beautiful, and honest as any other work. The war scenes play out like a modern film, gory and fast-paced, the ever-present shock of death. Though some have been annoyed at how each man is named (or even given a past) before his death, this gives weight to the action. Each death is has consequence, and as each man steps onto the stage to meet glory or death, Homer gives us a moment to recognize him, to see him amidst the whirling action, and to witness the fate Zeus metes.The psychological complexity and humanism of this work often shocked me. Homer's depiction of human beings as fundamentally flawed and unable to direct their own lives predicts existentialism. The even hand he gives both the Trojans and the Argives places his work above the later moralizing allegories of Turold, Tasso, or even Milton.Of course, Homer's is a different world than theirs, one where the sword has not yet become a symbol for righteousness. In Homer, good men die unavenged, and bad men make their way up in the world. Noble empires fall to ravenous fire and the corpses of fresh-limbed young men are desecrated.Fate does not favor the kind, the weak, the moral, or even the strong. Fate favors some men now, others later, and in the end, none escapes the emptiness of death. Though Homer paints some men as great, as noble and kind and brave, these men do not uphold these ideals for some promised paradise, but simply because they are such men.There is something refreshing in the purity of the philosophy of living life for yourself and yet expecting no entitlement for your deeds. A philosophy which accepts the uncontrollable winds of fate; that when the dark mist comes across our eyes, no man knows whence he goes.Later traditions make other claims: that the righteous will be rewarded, that the lives of good men will be good and the bad will be punished. In thousands of years of thinking, of writing, of acting, have we gained nothing but comforting, untenable ideals? Then Picasso was wrong, we have invented something, but it is only a machine which perpetuates itself by peddling self-satisfaction. I read and enjoyed the Fagles translation, which may not be the most faithful, but strikes that oft-discussed balance between joy of reading and fidelity. He makes no attempt to translate the meter into English, which is a blessing to us. The English language does a few meters well, and Homer's is not one of them. The footnotes were competent and interesting, though I could have stood a few more of them; perhaps I am in the minority. I also thoroughly enjoyed Knox's introductory essay. I would normally have had to research the scholarly history of the book myself, and so Knox's catch-me-up was much appreciated.
6190213015	Achilles - sexually ambiguous, rage-prone, has a sensitive tendon. Patroclus - 'best friend' of Achilles. Ruined everything for everyone. Odysseus - outsmarted the Trojans, had sex with a witch and a nymph. Agamemnon - worst husband, worst father, worst Greek, worst human. Menelaus - lost his wife, literally. Helen - the face that launched a thousand memes. Has the worst taste in men. Paris - the biggest fuckboy in Greek mythology. I don't condone child abuse, but I can see why his parents wanted to kill him when he was a baby. Hector - the perfect son, husband, father, brother, and prince. Tames horses in his spare time. Andromache - the perfect wife, mother, and princess. The Kate Middleton of Greek mythology. King Priam - had a hundred children. He's lucky child support didn't exist in ancient times. Queen Hecuba - had nineteen children and a horny husband. Briseis - in need of therapy. Ajax the great - the OG alpha male macho man dude-bro. Ajax the lesser - I guess he was a beta male? Hera - to quote Lizzo, it's bad bitch o'clock. Athena - it's ok to be a virgin. It's even better to be a virgin goddess of wisdom, warfare, and handicraft. I support Athena's war crimes. Ares - cute but psycho. Aphrodite - the OG Regina George. The Myrmidons - The Greek mythology equivalent of Navy Seals Aeneas - just kind of there. Thetis - Achilles' sea nymph mommy Poseidon - petty, vengeful, likes to play with dolphins in his free time (this has never been scientifically proven, it's just a theory) Hephaestus - got cheated on by Aphrodite and tried to assault Athena, and for that, he will forever be on my shit list. Hermes - in charge of Mount Olympus' post office. Artemis - a cool virgin who likes to hunt. Apollo - doesn't know the meaning of consent. Zeus - doesn't know the meaning of consent. Should I review the Odyssey? Was Odysseus the victim of a curse, or did he just not want to go home to his wife? 'Lost at sea' is the Greek mythology equivalent of 'going out for cigarettes.'Greek mythology is unhinged, and I wouldn't have it any other way. I have a confession to make: I love the movie Troy. Critics make fun of it. Historians treat it like a redheaded stepchild. I don't care. I love it. My opinion has nothing to do with a skirt-clad Brad Pitt.
2355294521	as a native english speaker, im not exposed to translated books very often; so this reread is the first time where i have truly comprehended the significance of a translation and how it can either make or break a story. i first read parts of ‘the iliad’ back when i was in school and i just remember the text being very stiff and formal. it did not hold my attention at all because i couldnt understand it. but as i have come to love this story over the years (through retellings and other media), i decided to give this another try. after a lot of research, i chose this edition and translation, and i cannot stress enough how it has made all the difference. the epic of ‘the iliad’ has its roots in oral storytelling and i am so impressed at how the flow of the language in this feels like someone is sitting next to me, personally telling me a tale about the best of greeks and their plight against the trojans. its a really neat feeling to experience such an authentic nod to homer and how he told this story, almost to the point where i feel as if i have been a part of this epics great history. ↠ 5 stars
4377474519	“I’m going to read nothing but Homer + Homeric literature—and history 540-1200 AD until I finish my novel.” – F. Scott Fitzgerald, May 1924That little novel of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s turned out to be The Great Gatsby.What is so special about Homer? What makes this tale carry through the ages?According to Matthew Arnold, the Homeric Style has four characteristics:1) Rapidity2) Directness of Thought3) Plainness of Diction4) NoblenessEvery chapter has a tremendous amount of action in it. There aren’t any characters going on and on for pages about their feelings nor does the prose get bogged down with endless descriptions of the landscape, history, or needless explanations of religion, politics, or education. Essentially, The Iliad is one big soap opera. All of the people are somehow related or know each other or their father knows their father. The point of focus for the narration also shifts—one minute it can be on the Argives, the next it might be in Olympus with the gods, then the next it might be with Priam or Hector on the Trojan side.When F. Scott Fitzgerald designed his education program, The College of One, he heavily featured Homer in the Poetry section. He wanted students to read a variety of different translations.So, of course, that is exactly what I did. I read The Iliad as translated by Robert Fagles, and the version recommended by Fitzgearld, the Iliad of Homer translated by Lang, Leaf, and Myers. Both translations have their positives. While Fagles can be clearer, the Lang/Leaf/Myers version had an extremely short summary before each chapter (which I find very helpful to orient myself), and it had stronger quotes.The Iliad is one of those books where every time it is reread, something new can be gleaned—it can yield up another secret, a new discovery. But I might be biased, because, after all, I am Lisa of Troy.The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent):Hardcover Text – $53.80 (the Lang/Leaf/Myers) from Biblio Softcover Text - $25.80 (The Iliad and The Odyssey translated by Fagle) on eBayElectronic Text – $13.99 on my KindleAudiobook – Audible – 1 credit (Audible Premium Plus Annual – 24 Credits Membership Plan $229.50 or roughly $9.56 per credit)Connect With Me!Blog Threads BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango
2848691101	This is a must read for every italian boys and girls at school ( many years ago the ministry of education put it with Dante, and Manzoni as a fixed programm to study for all the young italians); we begin to study "Iliade" from middle then up to High school ...and then at College if you choose humanistic studies...i will never forget my teacher at "Liceo Classico" kind of "Classical studies high school" that gifted us with brilliant lessons about Dante, Boccaccio,Petrarca, Manzoni, Omero and Virgilio and so on.... and then with our teacher for latin and ancient greek, we studied tragedies and other masterpieces translating them to italian...The programm was so difficult that an american teacher's we met during an exchange programm, told us that what we were doing was used to be studied during the 3th year of College for classic studies in the US. Now at 43 years old, i can only say , how lucky i have been to met such persons, teachers that loved their studies and their jobs!!( forgive me, despite my husband is american, and my kids are biligual, i continue to be a mess in written english!!)
826097329	TROY VI: THE INVENTION OF ACHILLES “The Classics, it is the Classics!” William Blake is said to have exclaimed, with pointed reference to Homer, “that Desolate Europe with Wars!”Blake's exclamation might not be as atrocious as it sounds at first. There might be some truth to this, a universal truth.Significantly however, this is not how the ancients understood it. They understood war as the catastrophe that it is.Strabo, the Roman geographer, talking about the Trojan wars, puts it thus: “For it came about that, on account of the length of the campaign, the Greeks of that time, and the barbarians as well, lost both what they had at home and what they had acquired by the campaign; and so, after the destruction of Troy, not only did the victors turn to piracy because of their poverty, the still more the vanquished who survived the war.”It is in this spirit that I chose The Iliad as my first read for The World War I centenary read.However, over the war-hungry centuries throughout the middle ages and right till the World Wars, this sense of the Epic was twisted by manipulating the images of Achilles & Hector - Hector became the great defender of his country and Achilles became the insubordinate soldier/officer - the worst ‘type’, more a cause for the war than even Helen herself. Of course, Achilles’ romance was never fully stripped but Hector gained in prominence throughout as the quintessential Patriot.Precisely because of this the Blake exclamation might have been more valid than it had a right to be. This is why there is a need to revisit the original tragic purpose of the Epic - most commentators would say that (as above) this original purpose was against ALL wars. But there is much significance to the fact that the epic celebrates the doomed fight of two extinct peoples.The Iliad starts on the eve of war and ends on the eve of war. Of a ten year epic war, the poem focuses its attention only on a couple or so of crucial, and in the end inconclusive, weeks (for it does not end with any side victorious but with Hector’s death).In fact, it opens with both both Hector & Achilles reluctant and extremely ambivalent towards war. And closes with both Hector & Achilles dead - by mutually assured destruction!In that clash of the Titans, the epic defines itself and creates a lasting prophecy.However, before we explore that we need to understand Hector & Achilles better and also the Iliad itself.In Medias ResThe Iliad opens in medias res, as it were, as if the epic-recitation was already on its way and we, the audience, have just joined. It is part of Homer’s genius that he creates a world already in process. The art of Iliad is then the art of the entrance, the players enter from an ongoing world which is fully alive in the myths that surround the epic and the audience.The poem describes neither the origins nor the end of the war. The epic cuts out only a small sliver of insignificant time of the great battle - and thus focuses the spotlight almost exclusively on Hector & Achilles, narrowing the scope of the poem from a larger conflict between warring peoples to a smaller one between these two individuals, and yet maintaining its cosmic aspirations. So the important question is who are Hector & Achilles and why do these two heroes demand nothing less than the greatest western epic to define and contrast them? The Long Wait For Achilles In Iliad, how single-mindedly we are made to focus on Hector, but all the while, the Epic bursts with an absence - that of Achilles!After the initial skirmish with Agamemnon and the withdrawal that forms the curtain-raiser, Achilles plays no part in the events described in Books 2 through 8; he sits by his ships on the shore, playing his harp, having his fun, waiting for the promised end.“The man,” says Aristotle in the Politics, “who is incapable of working in common, or who in his self-sufficiency has no need of others, is no part of the community, like a beast, or a god.”Hector is the most human among the heroes of The Iliad, he is the one we can relate with the most east. The scene where Hector meets Andromache and his infant son is one of the most poignant scenes of the epic and heightened by Homer for maximum dramatic tension.On the other hand, Achilles is almost non-human, close to a god. But still human, though only through an aspiration that the audience might feel - in identifying with the quest for kleos, translated broadly as “honor”.‘Zeus-like Achilles’ is the usage sometimes employed by Homer - and this is apt in more ways than the straight-forward fact that he is indeed first among the mortals just as Zeus is first among the gods.Zeus and the Gods know the future, they know how things are going to unfold.Among the mortals fighting it out in the plains of Ilium, only Achilles shares this knowledge, and this fore-knowledge is what allows him (in the guise of rage) to stay away from battle, even at the cost of eternal honor. Fore-knowledge is what makes Achilles (who is the most impetuous man alive) wiser than everyone else.Hector on the other hand takes heed of no omens, or signs, nor consults any astrologer. For him, famously, the only sign required is that his city needed saving - “and that is omen enough for me”, as he declares. He is the rational man. He is the ordinary man. Roused to defense.But everything Hector believes is false just as everything Achilles knows is true - for all his prowess, Hector is as ordinary a soldier as anyone else (except Achilles), privy to no prophecies, blind to his own fate. Elated, drunk with triumph, Hector allows himself to entertain one impossible dream/notion after other, even to the extent that perhaps Achilles too will fall to him. That he can save Troy all by himself.Hector & Achilles: The MetamorphosisLike other ancient epic poems, the Iliad presents its subject clearly from the outset. Indeed, Homer names his focus in its opening word: menin, or “rage.” Specifically, the Iliad concerns itself with the rage of Achilles—how it begins, how it cripples the Achaean army, and how it finally becomes redirected toward the Trojans. But, it also charts the metamorphosis of Achilles from a man who abhors a war that holds no meaning for him to a man who fights for its own sake.On the other side, it also charts how the civilized Hector, the loving family man and dutiful patriot Hector becomes a savage, driven by the madness of war.Before that, an interlude.The Other Life Of AchillesOne of the defining scenes of the Epic is the ‘Embassy Scene’ where a defeated Agamemnon sends Odysseus & co to entreat Achilles to return to the battle. That is when Achilles delivers his famous anti-war speech. This speech of Achilles can be seen as a repudiation of the heroic ideal itself, of kleos - a realization that the life and death dedicated to glory is a game not worth the candle.The reply is a long, passionate outburst; he pours out all the resentment stored up so long in his heart. He rejects out of hand this embassy and any other that may be sent; he wants to hear no more speeches. Not for Agamemnon nor for the Achaeans either will he fight again. He is going home, with all his men and ships. As for Agamemnon's gifts, “I loathe his gifts!“This is a crucial point in the epic. Achilles is a killer, the personification of martial violence, but he eulogizes not war but life - “If I voyage back to the fatherland I love, my pride, my glory dies . . . true, but the life that's left me will be long . . . “ (9.502-4) Hector & Achilles: The Battle Royale Notwithstanding Achilles’ reluctance and bold affirmations of life, slowly, inevitably, Homer builds the tension and guides us towards the epic clash everybody is waiting for. But though it might seem as preordained, it is useful to question it closely. The confrontation is crucial and deserves very close scrutiny. We must ask ourselves - What brings on this confrontation?On first glance, it was fate, but if looked at again, we can see that Homer leaves plenty of room for free-will and human agency - Hector had a choice. But not Achilles - instead, Achilles' choice was exercised by Patroclus.This calls for a significant re-look at the central conflict of the epic: it might not be Hector Vs Achilles!Patroclus and Hector instead are the real centerpiece of the epic - Achilles being the irresistible force, that is once unleashed unstoppable. It is a no-contest. Hence, the real contest happens before.This is because, that unleashing depended entirely on Hector and Patroclus - the two heroes who only went into battle when their side was in dire straits - to defend. Both then got caught up in the rage of battle, and despite the best of advice from their closest advisors, got swept up by it and tried to convert defense into annihilation of enemy - pursuing kleos!It is worth noting the significant parallels between Hector and Patroclus, while between Hector and Achilles it is the contrasts that stand forth.Hector, instead of just defending his city, surges forth and decides to burn the Achaean ships. Now, the Achaean ships symbolize the future of the Greek race. They constitute the army’s only means of conveying itself home, whether in triumph or defeat. Even if the Achaean army were to lose the war, the ships could bring back survivors; the ships’ destruction, however, would mean the annihilation—or automatic exile—of every last soldier. Homer implies that the mass death of these leaders and role models would have meant the decimation of a civilization.Which means that the Achaeans cant escape - in effect, Hector, by trying to burn the ships is in effect calling for a fight to the death!This decision was taken in the face of very strong omens and very good advice:In the battle at the trench and rampart in Book Twelve, The Trojans Storm the Rampart, Polydamas sees an eagle flying with a snake, which it drops because the snake keeps attacking it; Polydamas decides this is an omen that the Trojans will lose. He tells Hector they must stop, but Hector lashes out that Zeus told him to charge; he accuses Polydamas of being a coward and warns him against trying to convince others to turn back or holding back himself.Hector is driven on by his success to overstep the bounds clearly marked out for him by Zeus. He hears Polydamas’ threefold warning (yes, there were two other instances too, not addressed here), yet plots the path to his own death and the ruin of those whom he loves.Thus, sadly, Hector pays no heed and surges forth. Which is the cue for the other patriot to enter the fray - for Patroclus.And thus Hector’s own madness (going beyond success in defense) in the face of sound advice brought on a crises for Achaeans to which their prime defender and patriot, Patroclus responded - and then paralleling Hector’s own folly, he too succeeded and then went beyond that to his own death. Thus Patroclus too shows that knows no restraint in victory; his friends too warned him in vain, and he paid for it with his life. By this time Hector had no choice, his fate was already sealed. Achilles was about to be unleashed.The most important moment in Iliad to me was this ‘prior-moment’ - when Hector lost it - when he lost himself to war fury: Hector’s first act of true savagery - towards Patroclus and his dead-body. “lost in folly, Athena had swept away their senses, “ is how Homer describes Hector and his troops at this point of their triumph.Achilles, Unchained.Yet, Homer gives Hector one more chance to spurn honor and save himself and diffuse/stall the mighty spirit of Achilles that had been unleashed on the battlegrounds. In his soliloquy before the Scacan gate, when he expects to die by Achilles' hand, he also has his first moment of insight: he sees that he has been wrong, and significantly enough Polydamas and his warnings come back to his mind. But he decides to hold his ground for fear of ridicule, of all things!So even as all the other Trojans ran inside the impregnable city walls to shelter, Hector waited outside torn between life and honor (contrast this with Achilles who had chosen life over honor, the lyre over the spear, so effortlessly earlier). Hector instead waits until unnerved, until too late. And then the inevitable death comes.Thus the Rage was unleashed by two men who tried to do more than defend themselves - they tried to win eternal honor or kleos - the result is the unleashing of the fire called Achilles (his rage) which burns itself and everything around it to the ground. What better invocation of what war means?I ask again, what better book to read for the centenary year for The World War I?The Last BookThe last words of The Iliad are : “And so the Trojans buried Hector, breaker of horses.”Thus, fittingly, Homer starts with the Rage of Achilles and ends with the Death of Hector. This is very poetic and poignant, but it is time for more questions:Again, why start and end on the eve of battle? Because that is the only space for reflection that war allows. Before the madness of the fury of war or of disaster descends like a miasmic cloud. To use Homer’s own phrase, “war gives little breathing-room”.Thus, we end the Epic just as we began it - in stalemate, with one crucial difference - both sides’ best men are dead. The two men who could have effected a reconciliation , who had a vision beyond war, are dead. Homer’s Prophecies It is made very clear in The Iliad that Achilles will die under Trojan roofs and that Hector will find his doom under the shadow of the Achaean ships - or, both are to die in enemy territory.Though Iliad leaves us with full focus on Hector’s death and funeral, there is another death that was always presaged but left off from the story - That of Achilles’ own. Why?Achilles' death is left to the audience to imagine, over and over again, in every context as required. The saga of Hector & Achilles, of the doomed-to-die heroes, leaves one death to the imagination and thus effects a very neat prophetic function.Once Hector committed his folly, once Patroclus rushed to his death, and once Achilles is unleashed, the rest is fixed fate, there is no stopping it. So Homer begins and ends in truce, but with destruction round the corner - as if the cycle was meant to be repeated again and again, stretching backwards and forwards in time - Troy I, Troy II, … to Troy VI, Troy VII, … where does it end?Homer knows that the threshold is crossed, the end is nigh - even Troy’s destruction is not required to be part of the epic - with Hector’s death, the death of Ilium is nigh too and so is Achilles’ own death and past the myths, the death of the Greek civilization, and maybe of all civilization?The epic leaves us with the real doomsday just over the horizon, horribly presaged by it, in true prophetic fashion. The Pity of War The pity of war is The Iliad’s dominant theme, but it uses themes such as love, ego, honor, fear and friendship to illuminate the motive forces behind war. In another ancient epic, Gilgamesh, the death of a friend prompts a quest which ends in wisdom and an affirmation of life; in The Iliad, the death of the fabled friend leads to a renunciation of wisdom and a quest for death itself! In Gilgamesh, the hero learns the follies of life and rebuilds civilization; in The Iliad, Achilles comes into the epic already armed with this knowledge and moves towards seeking death, choosing to be the destroyer instead of the creator.The Iliad is an epic of unlearning. It mocks optimistic pretensions. In The Iliad, the participants learn nothing from their ordeal, all the learning is left to the audience.
21625700	I’m often kept up at night brooding on my troubles, wishing I could find some solace that would help me sleep. But now I know that the best way to keep insomnia at bay is to get out of bed, hitch up my chariot, tie the corpse of my mortal enemy to the back, and drive around for a few hours, dragging him, until I cheer up and can go back to sleep. The Iliad is unmatched, in my reading, for works that describe the bloody, ridiculous, selfish lengths people will go in order to feel better. The sticks and stones fly (and gouge out eyes, smash skulls, slash livers and veins until the blood sprays–this poem is definitely not for the squeamish), but the real weapons of the Trojan War are name-calling, cheating at games, and stealing your best buddy’s girlfriend or mixing bowl or ox. Most of the action occurs when somebody gets his feelings hurt, the baddie won’t apologize, and the sensitive one throws a fit, which can involve letting all of his friends die while he gets an olive-oil massage, or else razing a city, raping the women, and joyriding over other men’s bones. The Iliad suggests that even at its most glorious, war can be advocated only by people with the emotional lives of spoiled four-year-olds....For more thoughts, see my post:http://alisonkinney.com/2015/07/23/ho...
1625723082	الالياذة وهوميروس يجعلان منك طفلاً صغيراً تتحدث مع نفسك طيلة ايام قراءة الملحمة تمارس الهلوسة الهوميرية بكل جنونها، تستفيق هواية المعارك في مخيلتك، تتحمس، تغضب،تشارك بعقلك وانفعالاتك، تبكيك مشاهد مصرع الابطال، تلهبك ساحة المعارك المكتظة بصليل السيوف وتدافع الاجساد المتعطشة للدماء والمجد قبل كل شئ، يتلاعب بك هوميروس كيفما يشاء هو وآلهته الخالدة وأبطاله شبه المجانين ، يرتحل بك في العالم القديم في بلاد الاغريق، في طروادة، في معبد دلفي، في جبال الاولمبوس.. نادر أن تشعر بالغربة وأنت تقرأ في الملحمة نادراً ما تجد نفسك بعيداً هناك، لم يكن من الجيد أن تقوم بإخفاء نفسك خلف جدران طروادة العظيمة، لم يكن لك الحق في التخلي عن المعركة ،فهنا إما أن تكون أو لا تكون، هيكتورياً أو مواكباً لغضبة " أخيليوس " سريع القدم المتدثر دائماً بلباس الحرب والغضب معاً، لقد ولد مع الغضب وارتحل مع جنونه اينما حل.. حينما سمع بمقتل " باتروكلوس " كاد أن يجز رقبته بخنجره لولا أن قبض على يديه ومنعه إبن نيستور الحكيم.. صراع محتدم بدأ بإختطاف الجميلة "هيلينا" من أرض الاغريق على الكسندروس "بارس" ذاك الشقي الذي جلب الويلات لبلاده الذي وصفه هيكتور ذاته مرة " ايها المعتوه، ليت الارض قد بلعتك من قبل أن ترى النور في مدينة برياموس" ..أتفق أن باريس كان هواياً للنساء مفتونا بجماله ومحباً لهذا النوع من المغامرات التي تدفعه نفسه إلى خطف النساء والرجوع بهن إلى طروداة كـ سبيات وأسيرات في قصره، لم يخطر أنه قد جلب الوبال على شعبه قد تسبب في هلاك أمته ومحوها من خريطة العالم حين أفتتن بـ " هلينيا" الجميلة زوجة مينلاؤس شقيق الملك أجامنون، إختطفها من القصر وأبحر بها إلى طروادة لتصبح محظية له هناك..ما أن أدرك مينلاؤس ذلك الذي حدث حتى قام بتحفز أخيه على تجهيز العدة وشن غارة على طروادة التعيسة، أجابه شقيقه إلى ذلك بل وأجتمع جميع قبائل وملوك وسادة الاغريق على مشاركة الحملة الساعية أولاً لأرجاع زوجة مينلاؤس وثانياً نهب كنوز طروادة التي كانت ذائعة الصيت في مقدار كنوزها وغناها التي كانت تتباهى بها في العالم القديم..وصل المدد من كل مكان واحتشدت القوات الاخيبة والدانائيين مجتمعين لبدء الحملة والسطو على طروادة المجيدة معقل هكتور ومن قبل ذلك برياموس ذلك الشيخ الهرم حبيب الالهة.. بعد تسع سنوات من الابحار ومكابدة العناء كما تصف الملحمة، وصلت الحشود العظيمة يتقدمها أجاممنون الملك بنفسه ومع شقيقه المترف الأحزان، وسيد الغضب والقتال سريع القدم كما يصفه هوميروس " أخيليوس " أو أخيل البطل الاغريقي الخالد الساغي دائماً وراء المجد وتحطبم اسوار المدن العتيقة والابنية الشاهقة على رؤوس اصحابها وسبي اجمل نساء البلاد الاخرى.. أخيليوس الذي لم يداهمه يوماً الشبع من قتل الابطال في صيحات القتال ولا منازلة الجبابرة وسحقهم في مشاهد درامية كثيرة، كان آخرها مع هكتور صاحب طروادة..أخيليوس هناك جالساً في خيمته غاضباً تغني إلهة الشعر نفسها في وصف عنفوان غضبه، يصب اللعنات على اليوم الذي قرر فيه الابحار ومقاتلة اهل طروادة، ذلك لم يكن بسبب تلك المحظية التي قرر اجاممنون أن يبقيها لنفسه، خريسئيس الفاتنة التي عشقها أجاممنون وتمرد على بطله اخيليوس وانتزع تلك الجميلة من بين ذلك الاسد الهائج المسمى أخيليوس..أخيليوس وحيوان الغضب في داخله تحولا إلى جبل لا يتزحح قرر فيها أن يترك الآخيين ليواجهوا مصيرهم في مواجهة الطرواديين الذي كانوا يتلهفون لمثل هذا النزاع المؤدي إلى فصل اكبر قوة عن ميدان ابناء الاغريق، الذي قرروا ان يواصلوا الحرب بدونه..تلك الغضبة هي التي تأسست عليها الإلياذة - اي غضبة أخيليوس - وهي التي كانت البداية لكتابة هذه الملحمة الخلابة.. والتي مطلعها :- " غّنِ لي يا ربة الشعر عن غضبة أخيليوس بن بيليوس المدمرة، التي ألحقت بالآخيين مآسي تفوق الحصر ، ودفعت إلى العالم الآخر (هاديس -العالم السفلي) بأرواح الكثيرين من الابطال البواسل ،بينما جعلت من أجسادهم لقمة سائغة للكلاب وكل أنواع الجوارح، وهكذا تحققت مشيئة زيوس ، غّنِ ممن جاءت هذه الغضبة بادئة من حيث أخذ الشقاق بين (أجاممنون) ملك الرجال وبين أخيليوس (شبيه الآلهة) ... من مِن بين الآلهة هو ذلك الذي دفع الأثنين إلى الصراع فيما بينهما.. أنه (أبوللون) الوضاء، فهو الذي أدى غضبه إلى انتشار الطاعون المشؤوم بين المقلتلين وإلى هلاك الرجال " ما أن بدأت بقراءة هذا الأبيات الأولى حتى شعرت بألفة غريبة تجاه ما أقرأ وكأنها منحوتة لتبقى خالدة وعصية على النسيان وعلى ظهر الحياة تدب كلماتها ورونقها الساحر الملئ بالمتناقضات والجنون، مساحة كبيرة من الخيال والشغف تمنحها لك الأبيات الأولى وهي تقنتص عمداً مخيلة القارئ للذهاب بعيداً جداً حيث لا وجود إلا لتلك الثلة من الأبطال والمدن الحصينة والسفن المقوسة التي تحمل على ظهرها ذلك العدد الهائل من المقاتلين المطالبين بالمجد، تلك السفن السائرة في ضباب البحر ومشاهد الغروب الخالدة..وكم كان قلب أخيليوس قاسياً حينها وهو يجدف في حق أصحابه هناك ويتركهم سريع القدم وهم يُقتلون على يد هيكتور أبن برياموس وبقية الطرواديين، صرخات نيستور الحكيم تملأ ساحة القتال منادياً بالويل على من ينسحب من المعركة ويذكرهم بالمجد في كل حين،أجاممنون في حالة الغضب والرثاء وهو يشاهد حشود الطرواديين متقدمة نحو سفن الآخيين منذرة بإحراق السفن نفسها.. أوديسيوس ربيب الآلهة يصيد أرواح الطرواديين برحمهه الذي لا زال يخترق الأجساد الطروادية، الثنائي أياس يتضرعان للآلهة أن لا يمنح النصر للطرواديين، ومازالت رماح الآخيين تنحرف عن مسارها بإرادة " زيوس " الذي لم يكن يأبه لتلك التضرعات الذي قدمها أجاممنون ومن قبله نيستور الحكيم ولا للقرابين التي تم ذبحها لهذا الإله القاسي الذي مكن الطرواديين من الغلبة في الكثير من الجولات حتى كاد أجاممنون أن يعلن الانسحاب نحو السفن خوفاً من إحراق السفن المقوسة والوقوع في شرك أعدائهم، لولا يقظة الثنائي أياس الذين استبسلا للدفاع عن السفن والذود عن آخر ما تبقى من المعنويات للآخيين المتمركزين عند السفن، نقطة التحول حدثت عندما هب باتروكلوس يحض أخيليوس على القتال ويذكره بمآل الاغريق الذي سيكون بشعاً على يد الثائرين من اهل طروادة ومن خلف بعض الآلهة التي كانت ترغب في سحق الجيش الاغريقي.. باتروكلوس حاول ان يسكن غضبة اخيليوس، لم يستطيع ذلك الشقي ان يفعل شيئاً سوى يتدرع بدرع اخيليوس ويواجه حشود الطرواديين وحده..ولقد علم اخيليوس هنالك معنى الالم معنى الغضب لأول مرة، معنى الفناء، معنى العدم، معنى الخواء، معنى ان تفقد كل شئ لأجل لا شئ.. معنى أن تكون محبطاً حتى من نفسك، من يقينك انك قد عاينت احزان العالم في قلبك، استجواب ذرات الحقيقة الخافتة التي تنادي بك إلى العالم الفاني.. لم يكن غضباً بل حزناً دفيناً وكأنه كان يعلم أن الايام تخبئها له وهو على أرض طروادة.. أخيليوس تمزق هناك ومزق ماحوله..*** *** *** *** *** *** *** ***هذه الملحمة أستطيع أن أقول من أجمل ما قرأت وما سأقرأ حتى، تحفة أدبية مذهلة حقاً وهي تحكي تلك الأحداث بصورة مشوقة ساحرة عصية على الادراك أنها كلمات مجردة ،كأنها أستخرجت من بئر الجمال القابع في سحر هذا العالم كله.. مذهلة تبقى هذه الملحمة في مخليتي صعبة النسيان والتأليف مرة أخرى.... عاطفي تلقائي غريب ساحر بارع .. ليست مجاملة بل هي حقيقة، بل وقطرة ساكنة من بحر جمال هذه الرائعة الانسانية..وأدرك تماماً أن لو اجتمع ممثلوا وفنانوا العالم على أن يجسدوا هذه الملحمة على أرض الواقع أو كلوحة أو لما استطاعوا إلى ذلك سبيلا..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~من الملاحظ عدد الشخصيات في الملحمة كبير جداً جداً لا يمكن حصرها ، أسماء كثيرة لمقاتلين وآلهة وأبطال معظمها تأتي كشخصيات هامشية لا وزن لها في عملية بناء الملحمة ،إن هي إلا مجرد ورقة يلقي بها هوميروس في صيحة الحرب فأما أن تتعرض للقتل مباشرة بعد ذكرها وهو غالباً مايحدث، أو أنها تتعرض للنسيان من قبل هوميروس وكما قال النقاد " أن هوميروس كان يغفو أحياناً أثناء تأليفه للملحمة " ، ومن الجدير بالذكر أن هناك شخصية تعرضت للقتل في بداية المعارك التي أشتعلت بين الطرواديين والدانائيين ثم ذُكر بعد ذلك وهو يقاتل ثانية في صيحة الحرب وللسوء حظه قُتل مجدداً .. ذلك ما يضفي في رأيي جواً من البراءة والغرابة في القصة وكأنها تجري خارج حدود الزمن.. ونصيحة لا تحفظ إلا أسماء الشخصيات الرئيسية في الملحمة وإلا سيختلط عليك الشخصيات ويصيبك نوع من الملل تجاه الكتاب، تابع دائماً ولا تهتم، جمال الملحمة في الاستمرارية ومواكبة جنون وحالات هذيان هوميروس..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~يكفي أن أقول أن الترجمة التي قرأتها لا توجد كلمات تصف مدى اتساقها وجمالها وأبداعها الادبي والذوق الرائع في إختيار المفردات والجمل وعمق حقيقي في الترجمة، المترجم أحمد عتمان ومعه عدد من المترجين الآخرين قضوا سنوات عدة ليخرجوا بهذه الطلة البهية الراقية، من أجمل الترجمات التي قرأتها، يستحق الثناء والتقدير والشكر لهذا المجهود الجبار الذي هو بالفعل تحفة لا يقدرها إلا أصحاب الذوق الأصيل في الأدب................ليست مراجعة هي تلك التي كتبتها، بل مجرد خواطر عن الكتاب راق لي أن أضيفها هنا..
1874073765	Read as part of my degree and as part of my love of classics, however it didn't compare to The Odyssey which I adored - possibly due to the lack of mythological creatures and rather more battles and lists of ships and names, which made it that much harder to struggle through. Still a great read as one of the original classics but I would choose The Odyssey over the Iliad anytime.
1767484219	I’ll pour you a cup of wine, while we sit by the shores of the sea; and when all our cups are filled, we’ll turn toward the wreck of the grand old city, and drink a toast to proud, lost, magnificent, ruined Troy.The Iliad is the first great book in the Western literary tradition. Sad, and in some ways appropriate and inevitable, that the West’s first great book is an epic of war. But it holds its pride of place in the canon because it tells an important story in an unforgettable and powerful way.The story is likely to be familiar to many. As Homer begins his epic tale, the Trojan War has already been raging for years; Greek armies from the various city-states of Hellas, united under the rule of the Mycenaean king Agamemnon, have been besieging Troy. The Trojan War, as Homer tells it, began not because of economic or political differences between Troy and the Greek city-states, but rather because Helen, the wife of the Spartan king Menelaus, absconded to Troy with the Trojan prince Paris. All of the leading Greeks, suitors for her hand, had agreed to go to war to bring her back home if she were abducted; hence, as Christopher Marlowe put it hundreds of years later in Doctor Faustus (1604), Helen of Sparta -- once she became Helen of Troy -- had "the face that launched a thousand ships." The presence or absence of a beautiful woman is also at the heart of the key conflict among the Greeks as The Iliad begins. Under the rules of warfare for that time, each prominent Greek leader is awarded a Trojan woman as a “prize”; Homer does not question this practice of sexual slavery, and indeed it is left to Euripides, centuries later in The Trojan Women, to call this "custom" into question. But this barbaric practice is at the heart of the central conflict of The Iliad; for Agamemnon has been forced to surrender his concubine Chryseis, the daughter of an Apollonian priest who has cursed the Greeks with plague, and Agamemnon spitefully responds by taking Briseis, the concubine of his best warrior Achilles, in return for Achilles’ many and virulent critiques of Agamemnon as commander and as man. As Briseis is led out from Achilles’ tent to Agamemnon’s – “reluctant, every step” (p. 89) – Achilles decides that he will no longer fight for the Greeks; and from that time forward, the Greeks reel from one military disaster to another. It will take the killing of Achilles’ friend Patroclus by the Trojan champion Hector to bring Achilles back into the fray.I have read The Iliad many times, and always return to it with pleasure. The edition I have before me – the Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition, translated by Robert Fagles of Princeton University, with notes by Bernard Knox of Harvard University’s Center for Hellenic Studies – has been widely praised. My one year of Classical Greek at a Catholic prep school in Washington, D.C., does not qualify me to differentiate meaningfully between one translation of The Iliad and another; but what I can do is look at the way the poetry speaks to English-speaking people of the 21st century A.D. I remember the challenge of translating those first two lines of The Iliad -- “μῆνιν ἄειδε θεὰ Πηληϊάδεω Ἀχιλῆος/οὐλομένην, ἣ μυρί᾽ Ἀχαιοῖς ἄλγε᾽ ἔθηκε…” And as I look at Fagles’s translation of those lines – “Rage – Goddess, sing the rage of Peleus’ son Achilles,/murderous, doomed, that cost the Achaeans countless losses…” (p. 77) – I find that it works well. Fagles’s use of blank-verse iambic pentameter conveys the epic and poetic quality of Homer’s lines in a clear and no-nonsense manner.Aside from its greatness as a poem, and its compelling qualities as a story, The Iliad commands our attention because of the insights that it offers into the classical Greek culture that is at the core of the Western cultures of the present day. The Iliad was probably composed around 750 B.C., in commemoration of a war that probably took place around 1200 B.C.; for the Greeks, it was the beginning of their world, and they looked to The Iliad as an expression of the values of their culture.Those values, as Homer sets them forth in The Iliad, include a decided sense of fatality; as the Trojan ally Glaucus proclaims in a confrontation with the Achaean king Diomedes of Argos, “Like the generations of leaves, the lives of mortal men” (p. 200). In this world where life is short and uncertain, where each human being’s fate is foreordained by the gods, the only real path to immortality is to try to excel, to stand out among all others. Later in the same conversation, Glaucus recalls the words of his father Hippolochus: “Always be the best, my boy, the bravest, and hold your head up high among the others” (p. 202). In a society as competitive as that of the ancient Greeks – a society that dated its calendar from the first Olympic Games in 776 B.C., the same way that we in the modern West date from the birth of Jesus Christ – these words no doubt resonated, just as today they tell us much about what the ancient Greeks thought and felt about life.Centuries’ worth of readers of The Iliad have remarked on how sympathetically the Trojan characters are drawn, compared to the Greeks. Agamemnon comes off as an arrogant, power-mad lout; Achilles seems like a spoiled, pettish overgrown child, sulking in his tent while his comrades-in-arms perish on the battlefield. Hector, by contrast, emerges as a dutiful warrior with a decidedly proportional sense of the world and his place in it; when fellow Trojan Polydamas complains that the omens gathered from bird-signs seem unfavorable for a Trojan attack on the Greek rampart, Hector scornfully replies, “Bird-signs! Fight for your country – that is the best, the only omen!” (p. 333). Small wonder that some scholars have posited that the composer(s) of The Iliad may have been a Greek or Greeks of Asia Minor who identified with the Trojans as a matter of possible ancestry and heritage. This edition of The Iliad is rich with bonuses and extras. Translator Fagles provides a helpful preface, and commentator Knox offers not only a thorough introduction but also guides to Homeric geography, the spelling and pronunciation of Homeric names, and a genealogy of the royal house of Troy. For anyone who wants to be plunged into the mindset of classical Greece, this edition of The Iliad can truly be your muse.
2804547867	Magnánima obra de Homero que desarrolla, sobre todo, la Guerra de Troya.Este libro en cuestión está escrito en prosa.Me costó mucho su lectura ya que hay unas descripciones muy minuciosas de todos los detalles que implica a una guerra y se me hizo bastante pesada.Tal vez el hecho de estar escrito en prosa me impidió disfrutarlo más. Eso no significa que sea un libro malo, sino que es una cuestión de sensaciones al término de una lectura.En sí misma, esta obra es de una excelencia abrumadora.Magnanimous work of Homer that develops, especially, the Trojan war. This book in question is written in prose. It was difficult to me to read as there are some very detailed descriptions of all the details involved in a war and it was quite heavy. Perhaps the fact that it was written in prose prevented me from enjoying it more. That doesn't mean it's a bad book, but it's a matter of feelings at the end of a reading. In itself, this work is of overwhelming excellence.
1124249917	After reading The Illiad I faced a quandary- how do you review one of the most important and enduring works of creativity in human history? What can you say that hundreds of thousands of others haven't?My answer to this question is that I must join the chorus of those who have come before me and sing the praises of what is one of the best stories I have ever read, as fascinating and gripping now as it no doubt was when it was penned nearly three millennia ago.There are many reasons why this book has endured. It is a story of love, hate, vengeance, fate, pettiness, grief and war, bloody and prolonged war - a microcosm of human life and the furies that drive us to excess.You know the story. Paris steals Helen away to Troy. Agamemnon and the Greeks raise and army and lay seige to that great city. Achilles, the greatest warrior history has ever seen, fights and dies, a poison arrow embedded in his ankle. The Greeks roll a massive wooden horse up to Troy's gates, and the war ends in trickery and massacre.You know all this, but trust me, you don't know it the way The Illiad tells it. This is a glorious read, the brutal blows and shrieks of war leap from the page, and the human passions that drive the protaganists are vivid and compelling. You will read this book and wonder at how something from another time, translated from it's original tongue, can so totally enthrall a modern reader. It's powerful, heady stuff. So many images from this story are carved into my synapses. Hector and Achilles stalking the battlefield like avatars of death, scything down opponents in their tens. Priam begging Achilles for the return of his son's mangled body. Heroes cut down mid-fight, their souls headed for the underworld, their deaths mourned even by the gods on Olympus, who watch and guide the battle from above. There are a handful of books that every reader must experience - books that are milestones in human culture. The Illiad is one of these books. I don't know how I lived more than three decades before I read it, and it makes me nostalgic for a time I never lived through, when a high school education in the classics was something that everyone received.
4790885776	شاید کمتر کسی باشه که با جنگ تروآ آشنا نباشه و یا در گوشه کناره ها درباره این اثر (ایلیاد) نشنیده باشه.ایلیاد داستان سال آخر جنگ تروآ یعنی سال نهم و آخرین سال جنگ، برای کسانی که نمیدونند این داستان چی هست و یا کلیت کتاب چی هست خلاصه کوتاهی از داستان رو در پایین مینویسم: در پی جشن عروسی برگزار شده توسط خدای آسمان ها زئوس، اریس الهه کشمکش و یا نفاق به این جشن دعوت نشد که خب فکر میکنم بتوند حدس بزنید چرت دعوت نشده، پس از این موضوع این الهه سیبی طلایی رو به داخل مهمانی پرتاب میکنه که روی اون نوشته شده برای زیباترین زن، و سه اله با نام های: هرا ، آتنه و آفرودیت هر سه ادعای مالکیت بر سیب میکنند و از اونجایی که به نتیجه نمیرسند از زئوس درخواست میکنند تا بین این سه داوری کند و از اونجایی که زئوس حال و حوصله سر و کله زدن با این سه الهه رو نداره این داوری رو به پاریس زاده تروآ واگذار میکنه و طی صحبت هایی هرمس این سیب رو به دست پاریس میده و داوری بین این سه الهه رو روی دوش این مرد بینوا میذاره. سه الهه بعد از شنیدن این موضوع برهنه شدند و به سوی پارس رفتند و از او خواستند تا بهترین رو انتخاب کنه و هرکدوم رشوه ای به پاریس پیشنهاد دادند، هرا پادشاهی اروپا و آسیا ، آتنا به او جنگاوری و خرد و آفرودیت زیباترین زن اسپارت یعنی هلن رو پیشنهاد داد و از اونجایی که پاریس ما سست بوده پیشنهاد آفرودیت رو قبول میکنه و این همه تراژدی و غم و خوشی را در به نام جنگ تروآ رغم میزنه، چرا که پاریس پس از دادن سیب به آفرودیت در مهمانیی هلن رو از دست همسرش منالئوس میدزده.خب داستان و علت جنگ تروآ اینطوری شروع شد، حالا بریم سراغ داستان اصلی که در این منظومه روایت میشه:برای شخص من یکی از جذابترین تجربه ها خوندن این کتاب و یا منظومه بود، درگیری بین خدایان، انسان ها و دخالت هاشون در امور همدیگه بسیار جذاب بود، حقیقتا قبل شروع حس میکردم با توجه به اینکه این منظومه بالای 2500 سال پیش سروده شده، نتونم باهاش ارتباط بگیرم و خوندنش حوصله سر بر باشه و در وهله اول این شک و ابهام من راجع این اثر رفع شد.شخصا در ادبیات و کتابخوانی با کتاب های داستانی که نبرد در اونها و توصیفات نبرد نقش بسزایی داره و یا تمرکز روشون هست برای من چنان جذاب نخواهد بود ولی در این منظومه برعکس بود، بطوری که از خط به خط این نبردها بین قهرمانان و یا لشگریان و حتی دخالت خدایان در این جنگ و در پی هدفی که بودند برای من به شدت زیبا بود و لذت میبردم، رجز‌خوانی ها حرکت سربازان و آماده شدن آنها برای رزم.درباره شخصیت های مورد علاقم باید به هکتور، آژاکس، دیومد اشاره کنم.هر یک از شخصیت های داستان نمادین هستند، به طور مثال شخصیت آگاممنون شخصیتی متکبر و خودبین که بخاطر منافع شخصی دل قهرمان خود را میکشند و همین باعث میشود که لشگرش تلفات زیادی تحمیل بشه و تفرقه بین فرماندهانش افتد.به جرات میتوان گفت در آثار غربی یکی از حماسی ترین کتاب ها بود، یعنی وقتی این منظومه رو مطالعه میکنیم معنای کلی حماسه رو در میابیم.و خب لازم به ذکر هست که این منظومه بی نقص هم نیست، بار ها شاید رفتار های کودکانه و قهر و آشتی ها و گریه های کودکی که اسباب بازیش رو ازش گرفتند نیز هستیم که گاها باعث میشد به این رفتار شخصیت ها بخندم ...تراژدی .... در مورد تراژدی باید بگم که یکی از زیباترین ها برای من بود، دوستی عزیز از دست رفته و بار ها و بارها باعث غم و اندوهی جانکاه همراه با اشک هایی برای کسی چون برادر از دست رفته رو در این داستان میبینیم که واقعا خوندنش برام احساسات را کما بیش برانگیخته میکرد و اون حس غم رو خوب القا میکرد.سخت بود برای همچین کتابی چیزی بنویسم و سعی کردم اون حسی که از کتاب گرفتم رو در اینجا بنویسم، و برای نقد این کتاب اشخاص بسیار بزرگرتری هستند که با دانش بار ها و بار ها این اثر رو از جنبه های مختلف بررسی کردند.ممنون که این ریویو رو خوندید
4164124682	Rating:⭐⭐⭐⭐I have only a few things to say.It's definitely worth reading (duh) but you need to brace yourself for a slow-paced, overly detailed writing. (Like all the classics.) There's so much description and I found the dialogue pretty complex and long. (Again like all the classics.) Agamemnon is unlikable and the only reason I hate Hector is because he killed Patroclus and he was my favourite. Achilles and Patroclus were meant as a couple, I've never been more convinced. The Song of Achilles had it right.The whole thing reminded my of an Ancient Greek version of The Desperate Housewives or literally any other reality Tv show. Also, on a side note the gods reminded me of myself whenever I play The Sims.
4216469502	La Ilíada nos sitúa en medio de un panorama hostil, el famoso combate entre aqueos y troyanos que da lugar a la tan conocida Guerra de Troya. Con elementos y temáticas como la mitología griega, las pérdidas que deja la guerra, el honor, la gloria, el destino, los héroes y sus viajes, la vulnerabilidad y el dolor, la ira, la piedad y la compasión; sentimientos y emociones intensas que afloran.El conflicto bélico, la traición, la venganza, pero sobretodo con la muy marcada humanidad en las decisiones y los actos de todos ellos, desde los humanos comunes y corrientes, llegando hasta los semidioses y finalizando con los dioses. Sin embargo, subjetivamente se me ha hecho aburrida a ratos y entretenida por momentos encuentro en ella muchos aspectos interesantes. Y claro, solo es una historia recomendada para lectores que ya llevan un buen trecho recorrido porque tiene una lectura pesada, con demasiadas figuras literarias (epítetos, metáforas, analogías, hipérboles, etc) que llegan a cansar al hacerse repetitivas.No tengo más por aportar, solo que esta es una obra que dentro de la literatura, la historia y culturalmente ha significado muchísimo para occidente. Como eso, tiene un cuantioso e indudable valor que no se le niega. Así que más que asegurado que se pueden encontrar las influencias posteriores sacadas de este escrito.
4243415805	My very best experience with the Iliad. In fact, one of my best audio book experiences. I highly recommend this version translated by Robert Fagles and narrated by Derek Jacobi.The Iliad was originally recited, performed orally for an audience rather than being read individually. Homer, man or group, is credited with writing it down, but it continued to be recited. I find that this is still the way to enjoy it.From the PublisherThis set, translated by Robert Fagles, includes an abridged Iliad on six audio cassettes (nine hours) accompanied by a nine page booklet. The text is read by Derek Jacobi.About the AuthorTranslator ROBERT FAGLE is chairman of the Department of Comparative Literature at Princeton University.
3432220469	I was surprised by how much I enjoyed reading The Iliad. Many parts of it are bizarre and horrifying to the modern reader, but it can certainly be enjoyed within its context. A study guide that offers historical, cultural, and literary context to the ancient epic can significantly enhance the reading experience.I listened to Elizabeth Vandiver's Iliad of Homer Lecture Series while reading the book and I am so happy that I took the time to do so. I simply would not have enjoyed The Iliad if it weren't for the insight and information she offers about the historical, cultural, and literary nuances of the book.Plot Summary for the Modern Reader: On the surface, the story is pointless and simple: Achilles gets too angry and it doesn't do anyone any good. Everyone, Trojans and Greeks alike suffer the consequences of this grotesque manchild's unreasonable anger, including himself. Lots of men die in gory bloodshed. Throw a fair amount of plotting and scheming by a bunch of ridiculous gods and a lot of misogyny in the mix and there you have it. To sum up the whole book in one phrase: toxic masculinity in full force.Themes, Differences and Similarities with our world:But. The thing is that this story, wild and distant as it sounds to our times, has striking similarities to the modern world. War, bloodlust, and misogyny have been inseparable from humankind for all of history. This book has survived millennia because it continues to resonate with generations of humans. And it's not all bad, there are lots of amazing things about this book: beautiful poetry, gorgeous language and similes, a lot of relatable humanity throughout, touching moments, vivid characters who are relatable and nuanced, brilliant narrative that's exciting and full of suspense, and all the fun of Greek mythology. Misogyny and the Situation of WomenEntering this world, I had to come to terms with the fact that Homeric society functions very differently from what I would consider agreeable. The most disturbing difference is that no one, ever, questions the validity of slavery and the inferiority of women. Women are treated as prizes won by warriors, quite literally: “As for the loser, in their midst Akhilleusplaced a woman versatile at crafts,whose value was four oxen.” And they are not only prized for their handicraft skills, but they are sex slaves, plain and simple. The whole book starts because Achilles is angry that Agamemnon took Briseis (a woman, Achilles' sex slave) for his own and dishonored him in doing so. Not to mention that the war itself started just because Paris abducted Helen (or they ran off together, depending on whom you ask), and Helen is usually blamed for all of it. She even calls herself "whore that I am", more than once, while accusing herself of having started the war. (Which is ridiculous, stop calling yourself a slut, Helen!) This amount of sexism is infuriating, and it's precisely why I'm not rating the book 5. but I have come to terms with the fact that world literature (and world history, for that matter) has been sexist since the beginning of time until fairly recently. If I wanted to denounce every book that mistreats women, I'd have to denounce almost the entirety of literature from all cultures. I've decided that in order to approach ancient texts, I'll accept them as they are, read them within their context and I won't let myself get enraged over every single act of misogyny.Gore and Violence:The descriptions of the book are extremely brutal. The battles are described in gory, vivid, almost cinematic detail as warriors slaughter each other by chopping each others' heads off or stabbing the weirdest body parts imaginable (with "beside the nipple of the right breast" being a repeated favorite). I confess that it is not, in any way, enjoyable to read hundreds of verses on such disgustingly gory imagery. There are long descriptions of armor and warriors putting on armor as well, which aren't that interesting, and they're almost always the same. I did not enjoy reading those parts in the slightest. Not at all.The Gods (Or Comic Relief):Then there are the gods. The Greek gods are so grotesque that they're almost comic. The reason why I like Greek mythology to begin with is that I can laugh at these gods and their childish actions the whole time. They can be terrifying, but even that's somehow comic. They call each other names, they bicker, they scheme, they're vain, but they're fun to read about. Glory, Honor, DeathThe other cultural-historical difference that I perceive as a striking similarity is the concept of Kleos. Kleos [κλέος] can roughly be translated as "Glory", the glory that Greek warriors fight for, but that's not all of it. As Vandiver explains in her lectures, Kleos is also "reputation", as in "what is said about you, by other people, especially after you die". She stresses that in the pre-literate society that Homer depicts, this concept of Kleos is the only form of immortality available to warriors (and men in general). In a society where there can be no written record of who you were and what you did, the only chance you have at being remembered and live on in the collective memories of the society is to win glory, Kleos. If you die with Kleos, people will talk about you with honor and respect, thus immortalizing you through tales and epic stories they will tell about you long after you're dead. That is strikingly similar to the way we live today. Maybe our way of gaining a good and lasting reputation is not by raiding cities, war and manslaughter anymore, but the concept hasn't changed much: We die, we are inevitably bound to die, so we desperately try to do good, do something to live on in the collective memory of future generations after we've died. (Some people can claim they don't live like that, but that's a fairly modern idea and you get my point). The warriors themselves don't even want to fight. They don't enjoy it, and they wish they could have just gone back and lived their lives in peace. Both sides feel that way. This unwillingness and futility is stressed many times throughout the book. Agamemnon, leader of the Greeks, no fewer than three times says "we should pack up and go back to Greece, this is pointless". Most major characters at some point contemplate giving up the fight because it's just ridiculous to fight over nothing. The example that all introductions and teachers give is this one, where Sarpedon and Glaucus, two Trojan warriors are talking: “Ah, cousin, could we but survive this warto live forever deathless, without age,I would not ever go again to battle,nor would I send you there for honor’s sake.But now a thousand shapes of death surround us,and no man can escape them, or be safe.Let us attack—whether to give some fellowglory or to win it from him.” Their attitude is mostly along the lines of "I wish we could live forever, but now that we can't, let's just do this and at least die with honor and glory". Which is very sad. If you think about this statement for a moment, you'll realize how desperate, how unfortunate, how pitiable this situation is that these warriors are stuck in. They don't want to fight, but they can't bring themselves not do. Both sides are human. The war is pointless. That's a very realistic depiction of war, and it's a sad reality. You can't help but feel sad for all of them. I didn't like all of the characters, but I could sympathize with them and pity them in their futile attempt to immortalize their memory. This concept of mortality, the inevitability of death, the desperate urge to make a name for oneself during their short life is the main theme of The Iliad and what it has in common with human life through the centuries. This concept, this meditation on the mortality of humans is (alongside the favorite marketing tools of violent fights and sex) what, I think, has kept The Iliad alive through the centuries. It's fascinating. Hating and Liking the Characters:On a less stuffy note, I want to add that a lot of characters in The Iliad are likable, even though almost all of them are misogynist vicious warriors. Patroclus is gentle and kind-hearted and he weeps for the dead the warriors and the ugliness of war. The Ajaxes (there's two of them for some reason) are brave and they never give up, they rush to help their fellow warriors. Odysseus, Aeneas, Priam, even Diomedes all have some deeply human moments.Homer doesn't villainize and alienate the Trojans at all, either. They're supposed to be the enemy, but the Trojans are very human, most of them are more sensible and gentler than the Greeks. I really like the fact that they're not treated as "the savage, filthy, less-than-human enemy" at all. To me, they seemed like the actual "good people" in the whole story, especially since they're fighting to defend their city not to attack the Greeks. The hero of the Trojans (and in my opinion, the hero of the whole book), crown prince Hector, is by far the most human, most relatable, most responsible, and best character among all warriors. He sounds like any normal modern man that's been forced to go to war and does so merely out of responsibility, not bloodlust. He rushes to battle even though he most certainly would rather stay home with his wife Andromache and their infant son. On the other side, Achilles, the man who's supposed to be the hero of all heroes, is despicable. I mean that's just the way I read the story, but Achilles is horrible, insufferable, disgusting. He's impulsive, irresponsible, he has serious anger management problems (!) and he can't react to events proportionately. Even though he has some profoundly human issues, I can't forgive him for what he did to Hector. As a person who takes fictional characters rather seriously, I just had to mention this. I hate Achilles. :D Ranting aside, I want to mention a few things about translations as well. A Note on Translations: I act a bit obsessively about translations. I am never content with the one I'm reading, I always have the uneasy feeling of "what if there's a better translation out there", so I just have to check every translation I can get my hands on to see which one I like best. For reading The Iliad, I raided the library and all sources available to collect as many translations as I could and read them alongside each other for comparison. I must give a disclaimer that I am not a translator, not a classicist, and I do not know Greek. This is by no means an expert's opinion, but merely my personal impressions based on reading and consulting four English translations alongside each other. ● The Robert Fitzgerald Translation is my favorite by far. It's beautiful, but the language isn't too outdated. It has tried to keep the poetic (segmented lines) format. It's very readable and I liked it much more than other translations. It also has a foreword which is informative and I enjoyed reading it. The excerpts I quoted in this review are from this translation. ● The Richmond Lattimore Translation is the most literary and with the richest vocabulary among all of these. The language is beautiful and more heavy-handed than the rest, it attempts to keep the poetic structure as much as possible, and it's simply beautiful. But for me, it took a bit longer to read from it because of the rather dated language. I would normally read from the Fitzgerald, mark the beautiful similes and passages and check them in the Lattimore translation afterward. The foreword, again, is very good. ● The E. V. Rieu Translation: This one is in prose (The line numbers are marked). It's readable, it's easy, and it's the most humorous one by far. I don't know if Rieu intended to make it comical, but he's phrased the bizarre dialogues in a way that came across as funny to me. Whenever I arrived at a phrase that I found hilarious (when the gods were calling each other names, for example) I'd look at the Rieu translation and I wouldn't be disappointed (Hera calling Zeus an arch-deceiver and Hector calling Paris Paris, you parody were two of my favorites). It also has a short plot summary (with line numbers) before each book (chapter) starts which is very useful. The introduction is really good, too. If you want to read a prose version, this is the one for you. ●The Robert Fagles Translation is the one I didn't particularly like. It has a very good and informative foreword. It's fairly readable and has attempted to keep the poetic format. I don't have anything against it, but it just doesn't stand out compared to Fitzgerald or Lattimore. I read the first two books from it and then I gave it up, occasionally consulting it on interesting sections. You can choose whichever translation you like. If you're more comfortable with prose, go with Rieu. If you like the "poetic" format, I'd say try Fitzgerald. It is worth mentioning that none of the "poetic" translations are actual poems in English. Translation inevitably sacrifices the true poetic quality of the original. None of these translations have a noticeable rhyme and rhythm, let alone a standard meter. But that's just something we have to accept whenever reading something in translation. Whichever edition you choose is fine, they're all by experienced scholars. But please read the introduction because they are all very well-written, informative, and insightful. Alright. I've been rambling long enough. I just want to conclude by saying that The Iliad is well worth reading. It's interesting and exciting and bizarre and stupid and beautiful all at the same time, and I definitely enjoyed it and learned a lot from it.
2031159740	Book Review 3+ out of 5 stars to The Iliad, a Greek lyrical work written around 800 BC by Homer. Ah The Trojan War. We all know of the horse, but how did it come together? Who was at war? And why? You'll need to read The Iliad & The Odyssey to figure all that out... of the two, I preferred the Odyssey. I still found the story fascinating and enjoyed the read. But it's a lot to digest. It's amazing when you realize these works are almost 3000 years old. Such beauty in his words. And to think about everything we've learned over the years... about war... and the Trojan horse... both the virus and the trickery. There are some valuable lessons in this work. If only more would give it a chance! About Me For those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.
48538263	I read the Odyssey at Uni and really loved it. A romp off to parts unknown with a man who is good company from a distance. As with much of fiction, the people I am delighted to spend lots of time with on the page are not necessarily those I would want to spend anytime with otherwise.I’ve always meant to get around to reading this. I mean, this Homer guy only wrote two books and I had enjoyed the other one, so … so, a mere twenty years later (how time flies) I got around to reading this one.The problem was that I knew exactly what this one was about. You know, this is about Helen getting taken to Troy after Paris wins her after he judges which of the goddesses is the most beautiful which pisses off the Greeks and then there’s the siege and sacking of Troy after that rather clever trick with the wooden horse. Not much point reading this one if you already know the whole damn story.Now, you might be thinking – this guy should have put a spoiler alert at the start of this. You might also be thinking – this guy probably thinks it’s okay not to put a spoiler alert on this because everyone already knows this story. Umm, I haven’t put a spoiler alert on this because I haven’t told you anything that is actually in this story yet. Look, I know, I’m as surprised as you are. “Bugger me with a brick”, as a friend of mine would say. The idea Homer could be allowed to get away with writing a book about something everyone knows it is about and not actually writing about any of these things is, to say the least, rather frustrating. I’m sure that in some countries there is probably even a law against this sort of thing.It might just be me, but I would have thought that if you are going to write the FIRST epic in the Western Literary Tradition it does seem somewhat presumptuous to assume people know the back story. I know I can be naïve at times, but if first is to mean anything, surely it doesn’t really allow the writer to assume everyone already knows the back story. Instead, this book starts a mere 9 years after the war had began. There is precious little by way of explaining how we got here. And it ends the day before the final battle for Troy and before anyone seems to have come up with the idea of a wooden horse with a hollow middle. Spoilers start more or less now – if you are worried.A lot of this is boys’ own adventure stuff. Also a bit like the Godfather films in which they seem to have decided not to kill any two major characters in exactly the same way. Bronze swords knocking out teeth before plunging through skull with attendant buckets of blood and spraying brain matter plays, be well assured, a large part in this book. If I have any criticism at all it is that the war bits were over-long and after a while became all a bit same/same. In fact, by close to the end I was thinking I had had more than enough and was looking forward to the whole thing being over.And then that totally unexpected end! Jesus, what a way to finish a book. I was blown away. Achilles does not really come out of this book looking too good. I know he is meant to be a bit of a hero (the only things I knew about him before this being he had been dipped in a river as a child to protect him from harm and held by the ankles, so therefore these were his only venerable parts – and of course, none of this is actually mentioned here, though I suspect you are meant to already know). The whole book revolves around Achilles being annoyed at having his girlfriend taken from him and him spending most of the time in a petulant rage about to go home, stuck in one of his ships while all hell is breaking lose around him. Hector certainly seems the ‘better man’ in all this – even though he is a Trojan. This was something else I hadn’t expected.The thing I really like about the Greek Gods – and the reason Plato said that the poets shouldn’t be allowed to write stories about them – is that they are just this huge dysfunctional family. Nothing they like better than getting involved in human affairs and causing infinitely more trouble than they are worth. I also like that even when they know the outcome of something – Troy will fall, for example – that doesn’t stop them remaining loyal and supporting their favourite side all the same. It is as if the West Moorabbin Under Twelves are being put up against Manchester United all stars team and the dads of the under twelves are turning up to support their kids. Everyone knows the outcome, but all the same… “Go Johnny!”A lot of this is of more than just passing interest in the sense that it gives a fascinating (and tragically realistic) account of the horrors of warfare in the ancient world – and these horrors are many and graphic. Both sides foresee what is to happen to the women of Troy once the battle is over, for example, and this is none-too-pretty. All the same, after book after book of this I was well over these endless descriptions. But then book 24. Hector has been killed. Achilles killed him to revenge the death of his friend Patroclus, who Hector had killed and tried to quarter and feed to the dogs. Achilles is overpowered by grief for his friend and as a mark of respect slaughters 12 boys of Troy as an offering at the funeral of Patroclus (hard to express my disgust at this – not the act of a ‘hero’). He also spends days dragging Hector’s body about (ironically enough, attached to his chariot by the ankles) around the funeral site of his friend in some sort of bizarre ritual that is neither improved in report nor in deed, I think the line ran). I had never really thought about the significance of bodies after they have died in war – but psychologically, knowing (or worse, as in this case, not knowing, but assuming) what the enemy are doing to the dead body of your child, is, without question, unspeakably horrible.To regain his son’s body and to give it a proper funeral, Priam goes to Achilles and is helped there by the gods. He kisses the hand of his son’s murderer and begs for his body so as to be able to give him a proper funeral. Like I said, a remarkably moving end to the poem. I used to think that a good definition of a classic would be ‘a book that is rarely about what you think it is about before you read it’. As always, I was much too timid in my definition. It seems that a classic is NEVER about what you think it will be about before you read it. If they are particularly good classics, they are also not about what you think they were about while you were reading them either. This is an excellent case in point.
2252297498	Foolish me. I thought I was going to look at the different editions of The Iliad and choose the one most readable but did not reckon with the overwhelming beauty of the language and story. The truth is, it does not matter which edition you choose, so long as you read at least one. It is inevitable that you will find yourself drawn to the question of the most beautiful and complete rendition but you may (wisely) concede defeat at the beauty of each. The Homeric epics are said to be the greatest stories, martial stories, ever sung or written of all time, so if for some reason they did not resonate for you in high school, you may want to revisit what your teachers were talking about. When they describe the death of a man in the full bloom of his strength looking like an flower in a rainstorm, head and neck aslant, unable to withstand the beating rain, we understand. I listened to the audio of Stephen Mitchell’s streamlined translation, and it was utterly ravishing and compelling. The Iliad is one episode among many in Homer’s epics, and it may have been assumed that listeners of the original spoken performance would be familiar with all the players in this war. It is argued by some, including British scholar M.L. West, that The Iliad has had pieces added to it over the years. Stephen Mitchell follows West’s scholarship and strips out the extra passages, a notion expanded upon in a review of Mitchell’s translation by classicist Daniel Mendelsohn in The New Yorker (2011). Mitchell’s translation may be the most readable, the most listenable one in English. It is also the shortest. Mitchell also shortens the lines in English so that they have speed and momentum for an impressive delivery.The recent (2017) Peter Green translation, begun when Green was nearly 90 years old, is similarly easy to read; Green tells us that he began in a relaxed attitude for diversion and completed the whole within a year. Colin Burrow reviewed Green's translation in the June 18th 2015 edition of the London Review of Books. Neither the writing or the reading of this version is anguished or tortured, and Burrow points out that Green was a historian but didn't allow that to obfuscate or weigh down the poetry. The Green & Mitchell versions both retain a long recitation of those who prepared their ships to sail with Agamemnōn to Troy to bring back Helen, the wife of Menelaös. One imagines ancient listeners shouting when their region is named, much along the lines of the cheering section of a field game, when each player’s name is called. And later, as the blow-by-blow of the battle proceeded, one imagines each region cheering when mention of their leader is declaimed, though some died horrible deaths.This is another reason to read this ancient work: We live and die not unlike one another, we who lived so far apart in time, and perhaps the ardor young men of today have for the sword and for fame will be doused by the utterly desolate manner of death recounted here, one in particular that I cannot forget: a spear through the buttock and into the bladder meant a painful and ugly death. However, it is true that Achilles chose fame over life, knowing that his exploits in Troy would mean his physical death but his fame amongst men would be sung for “thousands of years.”One wonders how the ballad was delivered—in pieces or over a period of days—perhaps in sections by different singers? Caroline Alexander, after a lifetime of her own research into the Homeric epics argues in The War That Killed Achilles: The True Story of Homer's Iliad and the Trojan War that the work certainly required days to recite, and may have been performed in episodes. The length of the piece suggests the piece was once short enough to be memorized, leaving room for invention and modification as befits the oral tradition.I wonder now which European language has the most translations, and do they sometimes dare to attempt translations from ancient Greek to, say, French, and then to English? It seems we have enough scholars understanding ancient Greek to give us satisfactory versions without resorting to piggybacked translations. An attempt was made by John Farrell in the Oct 30, 2012 edition of the Los Angeles Review of Books to untangle the English translations and sort them for clarity and poetry. Those of us who love this work will read them all, especially the fascinating introductions to each in which the scholars themselves wax eloquent about what they loved about it. Mitchell's introduction is especially accessible and impelling: I could hardly wait to get to the story.I have read reviews of people who prefer Lattimore, Fagles, Fitzgerald, or Lombardo translations and all I can say is I’m not the one to quibble about great works. Daniel Mendelsohn "graded" four translations in the article discussing Mitchell's translation. It must be a curse and a blessing both (for one's self and one’s family both) to understand ancient Greek and to feel the desire to translate Homer. All the questions any editor/translator must address, e.g., spelling, which edition is ‘original,’ more poetry or prose, whether to render the translation literally or by sense…how exhausting the decisions, but how exciting, too.In the end, whichever edition gives you the greatest access for your first attempt to breach the ramparts of this ancient work is the one to choose for a first read. The other editions will naturally come later, once you have the sense of the story, a few names nailed down, and have that deepening curiosity about the poetry and the beauty.One last observation is that the men in this epic were mere playthings of the gods, gods that could be cruel, petty, jealous, and vengeful. These gods were helpful to individual men or women insofar as it helped their cause vis à vis other gods. There was striving among men, but most of the time human successes or failures had less to do with who they were than with who they knew. Was it ever thus.
1700103478	The story of the siege of Troy is one of heroism and tragedy. There are so many unforgettable characters here - both gods and heroes - that it is like watching an old black and white movie with those incredible crowds like in Ben Hur. You can see the vast encampment of Greeks around Troy, you can smell the cooking fires and hear the laughter in the camp - the jeers at the wall and the frustration on both sides as the siege goes on and on. The epic battles near the end the claim the lives of some of mythologies greatest heroes - Achilles and Hector - are beyond description. The Rouse translation is a bit dry but still does a great job of bringing this classic tale to life. I would love to hear from commenters on alternate translations, but this one which is a bit of a classic is the only one I have tried.
1815455162	هناك أعمال أدبية، مهما بلغَتْ شهرتها، ومهما بلغ احتفاء القراء بها، تظل لغزًا مُحيرًا بالنسبةلي، ودائمًا أجد بيني وبينها حاجزًا خفيًا يمنعني من خوض تجربتي الشخصية معها، وفي الغالب لا أفكر في اختراق هذا الحاجز وحدي، إنما أنتظر من يأخذ بيدي ويشجعني على ذلك بمشاركتي التجربة، وهذا ما حدث معي في هذه الرحلة، مع الإلياذة.بدايةً، هناك سبب آخر - بجانب الحاجز الخفي - كان يدفعني دائمًا لتأجيل قراءة الإلياذة، وهو أنني لم أفهم يومًا تصنيف هذا العمل، تارة أجد من يقول أن الإلياذة هي ملحمة يونانية أسطورية، وتارة أجد من ينقدها بكوْنها من أشهر الأعمال الشعرية لهوميروس، وتارة أخرى أقرأ مراجعات لأصدقاء تمتدح بالأساس ترجمة دريني خشبة التي صبغت العمل بصبغة أسلوبية عذبة جعلت له مذاقًا مختلفًا وأكثر جمالًا؛ وبعد انتهائي من رحلتي مع عالم الإلياذة أقول: كل هذا غير مهم، الأهم من هذا كله أن تخوض تجربتك مع هذا العمل بنفسك، وتراه كما تشاء، ففي كل الأحوال، ومهما كانت رؤيتك للعمل، سواء كان شعرًا أو روايةً أو كتاب تاريخ حتى!، ستستمتع، وستندمج مع الحكاية. وأنا في منتصف رحلتي مع الإلياذة كتبتُ هنا أنني لا أعلم تصنيف ما أقرأ، ولكن ما أعلمه ومتأكدًا منه أنني مستمتع، الأمر شبيه باحساسي عندما يدعوني أحد أقاربي على عزومة، فأجد على منضدة الطعام طبقًا لا أعلم ما به، فأتذوقه، فيعجبني وأظل أتناول منه حتى أكاد أنفجر من الامتلاء،حسنًا، أعلم أنه تشبيه غريب نوعًا، ولكنه بالفعل يصف تجربتي مع الإلياذة بدقة.لستُ من عاشقي الأساطير اليونانية، وبالتالي فإن القصة ذاتها لم تبهرني، إنما أبهرتني الترجمة العظيمة لدريني خشبة كمعظم من قرأوا الإلياذة بترجمته، تلك الترجمةالتي جعلت للحكاية روحًا مختلفة، وهذا التناغم المبهر بين القصة الأسطورية لهوميروس والتعبيرات الشعرية الرنانة لدريني خشبة مع التأثر بالقرآن الكريم، هذا المزيج كان كفيلًا بصُنع إلياذة أخرى، إلياذة يتقاسم فيها كلًا من المؤلف والمترجم مواطن الابداع والجمال.تجربة ممتعة، ولغز جديد لم يعد لغزًا بالنسبة لي بعد الآن.كل الشكر للصديقة العزيزة للغاية/ رضوى عبد الباسط، التي رشحتْ العمل لنقرأه سويًا، كانت خير رفيقة لاختراق الحاجز الخفي بيني وبين الإلياذة، وكانت السبب في خوض هذه التجربة الجميلة.تمت
4939532149	The Iliad is an epic poem created before writing was invented and likely written no later than the 7th BCE. The poem's events cover a period of 7-8 weeks of a decade-long Trojan War in which the story's character traits, namely honor, courage, skillfulness, and strength were valued above all other human qualities.Despite the long-held beliefs that the Trojan War was purely a mythological event, the 19th-century discovery of Troy has made The Iliad to some extent an actual historical event. Nevertheless, a historical event that our poet intertwines with dramatic fictional stories fueled by a vivid imagination.There is also a belief that "Homer" is not the name of the poet who is presumed to have written the The Iliad and that "Homer" simply means "compiler", hence, we might not know the writer's personal name but only their profession. Also, the notion of Homer being blind is difficult to believe for many due to his ability to describe external events so clearly.Homer's characters are exceptionally religious and devoted to their gods and the gods are involved in everyday people's lives and utilize their divine powers for both good and evil. What I found interesting in the story is the belief that not only is life governed by destiny, but that one's destiny stands above the gods. Hence, destiny is what the gods submit to and are there to see that destiny is fulfilled and that nothing disturbs it.I first began reading the English translation of The Iliad by George Chapman but soon realized it wasn't the right fit for me, so I continues with a translation in my native language and enjoyed it significantly more. I was also anticipating the event surrounding the Trojan Horse but there was no mention of it in The Iliad. Last but not least, the all-powerful and brave Achilles openly weeping over the death of his dear friend Patroclus is another confirmation that it's alright and acceptable for grown men to publicly cry.
5854850887	تقریبا سه هزار سال پیش فرد یا گروهی کتابی نوشتن تا فرهنگ خودشون رو حفظ و به نسل بعدی منتقل کنن. اون کتاب به پایه‌گذاری یه تمدن بزرگ کمک کرد و تاثیرش اونقدر زیاد بود که از تراژدی‌نویس‌های یونان باستان تا نویسنده‌های معاصر رو زیرِ سایه‌ی خودش برد. ایلیاد این اثر جاودانه و یکی از ریشه‌های غنی ادبیات، اثری که میشه اون رو اولین اثری دونست که به صورت کامل حفظ شده، بعد این همه سال، هنوزم مهم و خوندنیه.خلاصه گفتن برای اثری مثل ایلیاد شاید مسخره به‌نظر بیاد با این حال احتمالش رو میدم که شاید کسی مثل خود من هیچی از این کتاب ندونه و این شاید کمکش کنه. داستان ایلیاد با محاصره نه ساله شهر تروا شروع میشه. پاریس، شاهزاده تروا، هلن همسر منلاس که زیباترین زن میرا در جهان بود را ربوده و با خود به شهر تروا آورده. منلاس به همراه برادر خود آگاممنون، که هر دو از پادشاهان یونان بودن، یونانیان رو متحد و برای حمله و بازپس‌گیری هلن به تروا لشکرکشی می‌کنن و نه سال این شهر رو محاصره می‌کنن. داستان ایلیاد از روزهای آخر این محاصره شروع میشه و تا مرگ هکتور(شاهزاده دلیر تروا) و بازپس‌گیری جنازه‌ش ادامه پیدا می‌کنه(اسپویل توی چنین اثری معنا نداره و جدا از این، خود جناب هومر هم به کرات به این موضوع اشاره می‌کنه).ایلیاد، هم کتاب کاملیه هم نیاز به پیش‌نیاز و ادامه داره. از این جهت کتاب کاملیه که آنچه که باید رو به خوبی منتقل کرده. یه روایت حماسی از جنگ تروا، معرفی پهلوانان و قهرمانان برای جامعه یونان، پرداختن به خدایان و رسم و رسومات کهن که باعث شدن این منظومه توی هدف خودش کامل باشه. با این حال از این جهت میگم نیاز به پیش‌نیاز و ادامه داره چون یه سری چیزا مثل مسئله داوری پاریس، معرفی و جناح‌بندی خدایان در این جنگ و سرنوشت شهر تروا و شخصیت آشیل توی کتاب نیومده و باید برای مطلع شدن این جریانات به منابع و کتاب‌های دیگه مراجع کنید. که خب این موضوع به‌خاطر اینه که ما توی اون فرهنگ و جامعه نیستیم وگرنه چنین چیزایی برای فردی که توی اون جامعه یونانی زمان هومر یا بعدترش زندگی می‌کنه، اصلا مسئله‌ای نبوده و به قول معروف همه اینا رو حفظ بوده.یه چیز هم در مورد نوع روایت ایلیاد بگم که اگه هنوز نرفتید سراغ این اثر بدونید با چه چیزی طرف هستید. نوع روایت ایلیاد نه خطی، شاید میشه گفت شاخه‌ایه. اینطوریه که یه نقطه شروع و خط داستانی اصلی داریم اما به مرور هی شاخ و برگ داستان اضافه میشه و به چیزای مختلفی سرک می‌کشه. گاهی یه شخصیت جدیدی معرفی میشه و هومر شروع می‌کنه از اون میگه یا مثلا وسط جنگ میریم به المپ و ماجراهای خدایان رو می‌خونیم. حس می‌کنم اگه چنین چیزی رو بدونید شاید بهتر بخونید کتاب رو و کمتر براتون خسته‌کننده بشه.اما چرا باید ایلیاد رو بخونیم؟ دو تا دلیل عمده میشه برای جواب چنین سوالی آورد. اول این که همون‌طور که گفتم ایلیاد یه اثر به‌شدت تأثیرگذار روی ادبیات جهان به‌خصوص غرب بوده. اگه به دنبال کردن ریشه‌ها و آثار تأثیرگذار علاقه‌مندید باید ایلیاد رو بخونید. اما دلیل دوم اینه که ایلیاد یه درعه برای آشنایی با مردم اون زمان. نوع نگاهشون به مسائل. ارزش‌ها، عقاید و رسوم و...در مورد ترجمه هم من خودم با ترجمه سعید نفیسی خوندم. ترجمه خیلی خوبیه منتها اگه این قضیه سر و کله زدن با متون خاص ادبی رو می‌‌پسندید و دوست دارید تجربه‌تون از ایلیاد و اودیسه‌خوانی خاص‌تر باشه، ترجمه جناب کزازی رو بهتون پیشنهاد می‌کنم. هر چند که هر دو متن ترجمه با وجود اینکه عالی هستن اما انتقادات کوچکی هم بهشون وارد هست.من این اثر رو با یه گروه فوق‌العاده خوندم. المپی‌های نازنین که هم‌خوان‌های عالی‌ای بودن و با دانش فوق‌العاده‌شون باعث شدن بهتر این اثر رو تجربه و درک کنم و در کنارش با بحث‌های مختلفی که توی گروه می‌کردن باعث شدن کلی چیز یاد بگیرم. دوست دارم از همه‌شون تشکر کنم. و منتظرم که اواخر فروردین بریم سراغ اودیسه و امیدوارم اون همه تجربه بی‌نظیری بشه.
104036313	I have now read The Iliad for the first time since my college days. I almost wonder if I actually read the whole book back then. It seems so different now, so much more all-encompassing, universal and timeless in dealing with men at war, issues of honor, duties of leadership, fate, individuals and community. Certainly the gods seem more petty and childlike than I remembered. On this reading it is both more brutal and more beautiful than I expected; in that way I would guess it mirrors life. It also does seem relevant to the contemporary world these thousands of years later with the themes of honor, fate, love/hate, loyalty and fealty, leadership-good and poor, what is a true leader. I was also struck by the human-seeming nature of the gods. They had more power and immortality, but they were petty and, at times mean and spiteful. There also played games with human lives and destinies. Though they perhaps brought a vague order to human's lives, there was no nobility to their existence.I likely will read The Iliad again before long (I already have a kindle copy of Catherine Alexander's translation for comparison). I enjoyed Fagles' translation very much and found his descriptive writing often beautiful, his war and battle scenes brutally clear.All in all, I'm very glad I have finally returned to Homer's world......................................................................................................My original rating was 2* from my recall of reading a different translation while in college (?Lattimore) many years ago. I very much enjoyed Fagles' Odyssey and look forward to trying a new version of The Iliad as a more "mature" adult.
3538132235	This is a story of battles. It begins with a battle of principles between Achilles and Agamemnon, and as stubborn as they both are, I could sympathize with both views. I enjoyed that.I appreciated the depiction of the gods and goddesses. They were a dysfunctional family, deeply flawed, and yet human lives were subject to their whims. And although the gods could choose to ignore a prophecy, they’d usually adhere to one with respect. It made for an integrated unfolding of free will and fate.I could also see clearly how classic story structure was built in this poem, each action causing a reaction that created an inevitable outcome or conclusion. I appreciated how neither the Trojans nor the Greeks were depicted as evil or wrong (each had their reasons), and in the end I grieved their losses equally. But so much of the text read like a list and felt very much like The Bible’s section “begat begat begat.” For example, Homer names every man from each ship on both sides of the battle. And most pages describe battle after battle, death after death, without giving the reader enough of character to care. The description of the woundings felt like they were written with the glee and remove of children in a school yard - lots of heads popping off bodies, and eyes popping from heads, which made them kind of fun. I imagine those who listened to these stories back then had prior knowledge of the personalities, and so were invested in their origins and fates. I probably should have done more research. In the end, the story felt too impersonal to me, unlike The Odyssey, which I enjoyed. I also highly recommend Madeline Miller’s The Song of Achilles, which tells the story of The Iliad within the larger context of the tender and complex relationship between Patroclus and Achilles.
1819965935	For first-time readers of Homer or those wanting to check out or simply immerse themselves in the Classics canon, Robert Fagles is your man. An immensely readable and bloody account of treacherous mortals and Gods, with a fine introduction by Bernard Knox and plenty of helpful support (cast list, orientation and pronunciation). Fagles really makes this fabulous epic sing and his translation is a marvel of scholarship and beauty. A magnificent achievement.
3060807300	What I got from The Iliad:Pantheon of Greek gods was one big hell of dysfunctional family.Zeus was the most indecisive god ever and a terrible father who won't saved his son for fear of losing his face, so he rather just killed all of them.The only difference between mortals and gods was just immortality and power.Every moment of your life was literary on the whims of gods.Heroes were only heroes if gods willed it.One could be irrational or brave or filled by fear, weak or strong from second to second as how gods made you felt.The admirable struggle of men and their endurance in life even as gods doomed them.Women, mortal and immortal alike were decoration or prize or spoil of wars that could only, maybe got their way by manipulation.Men were only worthy if they were warriors who got fame by sacking cities, stolen, enslaved and raped women and basically a mass murderer.Women, once captured developed a severe case of stockholm syndrome that they wailed for the death of their captors.A captured woman skilled in all arts worth 4 oxen while a tripod worth 12 oxen.Gods was how you cheated in a game.Never, ever bragged in front of gods, or you and your whole family will suffered the most terrible death.To read a work of over 2000 years was in itself a fortune. To travelled back in time that far ago and glimpsed the culture and values that people hold, the life and the belief that shaped their literature was a privilege. The fact that it used to be passed orally from multiple generations and persisted to today was just majestic and in itself contained the question of why? And what it said about us.
1362540385	Recuerdo cuando leí la primera vez la Ilíada, era un libro de apenas cientos de hojas, muy entretenido que lo leí en un par de días. Pero luego supe que el libro en verdad era más extenso y fue la primera vez que compré una obra literaria con mi propio dinero, recuerdo que me costó muy caro para mí pues era un colegial, pero cuando lo tuve en manos bien supe que valió la pena. Me introdujo directamente en el mundo de la mitología griega pues su relato aunque extenso no me fue para nada aburrido, claro está me encanta los asuntos militares y no me aburrí en ningún momento, todo ello aderezado con los mitos que se cuentan y que son una fuente importantísima en la mitología griega por la gran cantidad de información que proporciona.Es increíble la cantidad de personajes tanto principales como secundarios que puede manejar Homero en sus relatos, y así la Iliada es un conjunto de guerras, amores, desamores, traiciones, cobardías, pasiones, ambiciones todo ello entre una pugna de dioses y hombres no sólo en el sentido mismo de la guerra sino también en el de la humanidad y la gloria.
2775581413	I read the Iliad. And well, I suppose it what I was expected. It’s very slow and meandering with just event after event. There’s no real effort made to create a connection for the reader to be connected at all with either the plot with the characters. It’s really quite told in a distant way and as someone who is used to reading modern books which is really about being connected with the characters and the plot.My first attempt to read the book I think was last year, but I didn’t get very far as it’s not the easiest read. However, after reading The Song of Achilles, which I loved not too long ago, I thought I would pick this up again, now that the context is much clearer. Didn’t love it as much as The Song of Achilles, even though that novel is a retelling of this one but it mean I was able to follow this one along just fine even though there are so many names to keep track of and I was able to get through all of it.Now, while I am reading a translated version of the text as unfortunately, I am not familiar with Ancient Greek, it is interesting to still look at some of the way this is worded. I found it oddly amusing that there was generally always some sort of description whenever a name of a character was mentioned. Instead of just saying Achilles, it was always something like, the son of Peleus, Achilles, or godlike Achilles. While it was almost funny at first seeing all the characters being introduced like this, it did start to get incredibly repetitive and annoying and in terms of modern writing, it is so unnecessary to provide an, albeit short description every time no matter how minor a character pops up.This book, which is set during the last few stages of the Trojan War features a lot of battle sequences and as a huge reader of modern fantasy, the way that action is written as changed drastically. I honestly prefer the way action is written now, where a lot of the time it is quick tense sequences, largely from the character’s perspective and at how the reader really gets to feel the adrenaline pumping through them. Here, everything just sort of casually moves along and some elements are described in excruciating detail. It was certainly interesting to see at how many soldier’s names are listed but the truth was, was that I didn’t really care less. Even though there are these massive grand action sequences on an epic scale featuring literal gods, they weren’t written in a way that was actually exciting.Now, I’m sure there are lots of elitists out there who would be like but but you don’t understand you uneducated swine. And sure, maybe I don’t. Maybe this is a genius piece of art and I simply cannot fathom at how brilliant it is. Or, maybe it’s something a white dude came up with almost 3,000 years ago and it’s time to move on to newer, more refreshing stories.Naturally, Homer, or at least, the person we tend to think of as Homer wasn’t actually born hundreds of years later after the supposed Trojan War. I find it fascinating at how people, just over time, find it difficult to tell the difference between myth and truth and at how it is almost easier to accept that gods walked amongst us once and at how the truth happens to be bent when stories are passed down orally. I perfectly understand at how important this story is in western literature, yet, as I found it to be overly slow and slightly repetitive, that from a modern standpoint, it failed to wow me. I get the value of this, yet if someone was to write like this now, where there is no character development, where the book is very repetitive and where the plot trudges very slowly along, it would be nowhere near as popular. A part of why this is still such a famous text is undoubtedly the fact that it was written so long ago.Anyways, it was ok I suppose and now I can say I’ve read the Iliad. Was it worth it? I mean sure. Didn’t blow me away or anything, but I also didn’t except it to. 5.5/10
5845823657	پاریس دومین پسر پریام، پادشاه تروا بود. قبل از تولدش پیشگویان هشدار داده بودند که او موجب نابودی تروا خواهد بود. پادشاه، پاریس را به چوپانی سپرد تا او را در کوه رها کند. چوپان او را نزد خود نگه داشت و بزرگ کرد. در نوجوانی وقتی گاومیش محبوبش برای جایزه‌ی مسابقه‌ای به دستور پریام‌شاه ضبط شد، پاریس برای باز پس گرفتن گاومیش در مسابقه شرکت کرد و تمام پسران پریام را شکست داد. کاساندرا خواهرش او را شناخت و پاریس به خانه بازگشت.هزئوس خدای خدایان ضیافتی برای ازدواج پلئوس، پهلوان نامدار و ثتیس، الهه دریا برگزار کرد. (حاصل ازدواج این دو نفر آشیل بود) اریس الهه نفاق به مراسم دعوت نشد و به همین دلیل سیب زرینی داخل مراسم پرتاب کرد که روی آن نوشته شده بود زیباترین الهه زن. سه الهه، هرا، آتنا و آفرودیته مدعی مالکیت سیب شدند. زئوس داوری را به پاریس واگذار کرد. هر سه الهه بدن عریان خود را به پاریس نشان داده و پیشنهادی برای جلب رضایت وی دادند. هرا پادشاهی اروپا و آسیا، آتنا خرد و مهارت در جنگ و آفرودیته زیباترین زن دنیا، هلن را پیشنهاد داد. پاریس پیشنهاد آفرودیته را پذیرفت.ههلن خواستگاران زیادی داشت و ناپدری او از همه‌ی آنها قول گرفت که پشتیبان فرد منتخب هلن باشند. هلن منلائوس را برگزید. هنگامی که هلن با پاریس گریخت، همه‌ی خواستگاران به خاطر قولی که داده بودند به جنگ تروا آمدند. در جنگ تروا زئوس و آفرودیته پشتیبان مردم تروا و هرا و آتنا به خاطر کینه نسبت به پاریس پشتیبان یونانیان بودند. کتاب ایلیاد داستان آخرین سال از جنگ و محاصره‌ی تروا توسط یونانیان است جایی که آشیل به خاطر اختلاف با آگاممنون از جنگ کناره‌گیری کرده است و هکتور برادر پاریس یکه‌تاز میدان نبرد است. اما اتفاقات آشیل را دوباره به میدان برمیگرداند تا پایان جنگ فرا برسد....ه
2240400247	What can I possibly say? Truly one of the greatest works of art our species has produced, remaining profoundly moving, thrilling, philosophically rich and emotionally complex well over 2000 year later. I have read other translations in the past but this new version from Caroline Alexander knocked my damn socks off. Pope’s version is poetry of the highest order, and was probably my favourite up till now, but the distance between it and the “original” is pretty immense. What this version lacked in poetry it made up for in immediacy, clarity and (from what I can tell from research) fidelity. Nothing felt forced, nothing too modernised and nothing too artificially antique. I would unhesitatingly recommend this translation as the new gold standard. If you have read the Iliad long ago, or only know it by reputation, or mistakenly believe it just to be lots of macho killing, or do not expect to find subtle, believable female characters inside...well...all I can say is you should give this new version (yes, the first by a woman. And, yes, that does matter) a go.
1958905159	A Heroic And Human TragedyThe Iliad is a story of passion. In its sweep lies war and death, honor and pettiness, mortality, domesticity, gods and men.In his excellent introduction to this edition and translation by Robert Fagles, Bernard Knox writes that the Iliad probably was written down between 725 and 675 B.C. It tells a story that was archaic even for its time that is set around 1200 B.C. The story of the Iliad covers a matter of days in the tenth and final year of the Trojan War. It is allusive to the entire mythology of that ancient struggle. The tale is deliberately mythical, with characters and emotions that, Homer tells us many times, are larger than those of men today. For too many, the Iliad comes encrusted as a "classic". People read it, or portions of it, in high school or college and inevitably miss much of the grandeur and wisdom of the work.When I came back to the Iliad recently (after not having read the work in many years) in this translation by Fagles, I was swept away. I accompanied my reading of the Iliad with an excellent series of lecture tapes on the poem and its background. I thought the translation, written in a modern colloquial free verse helped me to understand and read the poem. The translation, for me, gives the reader a sense of the repetitions, formulas and phraseology of the original. It has a sweep to it, and the style and translation does not get in the way of understanding the work. This is important in a modern translation of an ancient work. The translation was easy to follow and got me involved in the tale. I am sure the poem works differently in the ancient Greek than in this translation. But this is largely irrelevant to the virtue of Fagles's work which makes the Iliad come alive and roar in a manner which encourages the nonclassicist modern reader to approach it.There are a multitude of themes in the Iliad. At the beginning of the work, Homer invokes his muse and announces that the work will deal with the "rage of Achilles." The work is about human anger and rage on a grand scale and about the waste, but strange grandeur of war. In his introduction, Bernard Knox quotes approvingly from Simone Weil, writing in France during World War II, who described the Iliad as the West's leading work on the use and nature of Force. The Iliad speaks deeply about the human condition, about the tragedy and heroism that human mortality makes possible, and about how people may learn to change and to understand others.I found Bernard Knox' introduction and notes helpful in understanding the controversies surrounding the writing of the Iliad and in giving the reader some of the basic tools to think about the work. Whether the reader is approaching the Iliad for the first time or after many times, there is much to be gained from reading this basic text of the West. Fagles' translation will help bring the reader to the Iliad.Robin Friedman
4537769423	خب این کتاب هم متاسفانه با وجود اینکه همخوانی بود اما از نصف بیشتر نشده ول شد. میخواستم وقتی سه درصد خوندم ولش کنم اما خودم رو متقاعد کردم تا بیست درصد ادامه بدم ولی به ده درصد نرسیده صبرم تموم شد و رفتم سراغ خلاصه چپترها ولی اونجا هم دووم نیاوردم.شروع کتاب اینجوریه که انگار یهو پرت میشی وسط کلاس کودکان سه ساله مهد کودک که دارن سر اسباب بازی ها با هم دعوا میکنن اما از قضا این کودکان ما درواقع فرمانروایان سرزمین‌ها و فرماندهان ارتش‌ها هستن که برای زن هایی که به غنیمت گرفتن دارن تو سر و کله هم میزنن!! بگذریم.احتمالا این سوال برای خیلی از ماها پیش اومده که چطوری مردم تو زمان های قدیم با وجود نبود اینترنت و لوازم تفریحی دیگه حوصلشون سر نمی‌رفته؟ و خب جواب این سوال رو تو ایلیاد میتونید پیدا کنید!!! ده ساله آگاممنون کل یونان رو جمع کرده دم در تروا!! ده ساله نشستن پشت دیوارهای پریام و برنمیگردن خونه هاشون!!! آدم میمونه بخاطر سماجتشون تحسینشون کنه یا بخاطر شدت بیکاریشون بهشون بخنده؟!🤷 بازم بگذریم.حالا این جنگاوران نازنین با سخنرانی های پرطنینشون و دلاوری های شگفت آورشون به کنار، آدم میمونه خدایان اینا رو کجای دلش بزاره؟؟؟ یکی از یکی حقیرتر و پست تر و رو مخ تر! ابهت هرچی خداست رو ریختن!!! از همشون بدتر هم زئوسه که فکر کنم فقط به عمه من نظر نداشته!! لامصب کلی نقشه هم میکشه واسه اغوای این زن ها! فکر کنم بیشتر از نصف ارتش یونان رو بچه های زئوس از زنهای فانی تشکیل میدادن! بگذریم که کلا تشخیص اینکه کی تو جبهه کیه خیلی کار سختیه! از همون چپترهای اول فقط پیگیر اسم های معروف ( یا بهتر بگم اسم هایی که میشناختم ) بودم و هیچ چیزی از دست ندادم. خطابه هاشون هم که بماند!! بیست صفحه فلانی حرف میزنه بیست صفحه بعد فلانی جوابش رو میده! تکرار هم که دیگه هیچی! یه اتفاق میفته بعد ده نفر به ترتیب برای هم تعریف میکنن و تعریف هر ده نفر کپی پیست توی کتاب اومده!! و اینگونه چپترهای کتاب پر میشوند...درنهایت اینکه به نفوذ و تأثیر ایلیاد بر روی ادبیات جهان احترام میذارم ولی به همه پیشنهاد میکنم به جای کتاب برن خلاصه ویکی پدیا رو بخونن.
1424938786	''Let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle, but first, let me do some great thing that shall be told among men hereafter." Hektor of TroyImagine a cold winter evening, a glass of wine, and the voice of famous Shakespearean actor Derek Jacobi, reading from Robert Fagles's finely crafted translation of the Iliad aloud in your living room. For half an hour or more each night, you can forget about omicron and escape into the poetry of a grand epic.It's been over ten years since I last read the Iliad in the original; however, I enjoyed it more this time. Although my husband and I followed along, book in hands, we realized that Homer needed to be heard. The Iliad is an oral performance, and at times I would close my eyes and listen. A lecture series that we took simultaneously enhanced our enjoyment.The Iliad is an epic classic. But, unfortunately, I can't do it justice in a summary or critique. However, I found listening to an outstanding performance profoundly moving. The poetry, characters, and conflicts have a timeless quality that goes to the heart of what it means to be human.
3319705810	Hallelujah. It’s over. Well, at least The Iliad is, though the story continues in The Odyssey. I had forgotten how much the beginning of this epic sounds like a giant group of toddlers fighting over toys. These toddlers just happen to command warships and armies, and the toys happen to be women they view as war prizes. Frankly, it’s disgusting. If these idiotic “heroes” would just view women as actual people who can make their own decisions instead of pretty toys over which to wage war, every single event in this story could have been avoided. Had they just asked Helen who she wanted to be with and respected that decision, hundreds of lives would have been saved. The amount of bloodshed over the “taking” of this woman is just insanely wasteful, even if it’s fictional.“Any moment might be our last. Everything is more beautiful because we're doomed. You will never be lovelier than you are now. We will never be here again.”The gods are so incredibly petty. If Monopoly is the board game that ruins families, the gods of Olympus are playing something similar with cities and human lives. Men and women are literal pawns to them, game pieces and very little else. They claim to care about some of these people, but it’s a very shallow kind of care. Seriously, they’re terrible. And as 70% of Greek mythology is directly tied to Zeus’s inability to keep it in his toga and Hera’s rage over that fact, it can’t even be pretended that the gods cared about much outside of their own desires and fury.“Hateful to me as the gates of Hades is that man who hides one thing in his heart and speaks another.”Honestly, this is a cast completely comprised of hypocrites. All of these men deeply believe they commit a travesty against another person but is then surprised and horrified if something similar is done to themselves or someone close to them. For instance, if the whole war is occurring due to the theft of a woman (more on that above), then why on earth would you take the “prize” of your greatest warrior because you’re feeling slighted? How did you think that was going to work out for you? And if your heart is set on desecrating the dead body of said warrior’s bestie, who isn’t even fighting in the war because of the aforementioned lady theft, why on earth would you be shocked that he decides to not only finally engage in the war but that he’s out for your blood and intends to disrespect your corpse in the same ways? Seriously, people. What the heck?“Let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle, but let me first do some great thing that shall be told among men hereafter.”These warriors are also insanely self-absorbed. To a man, every single one of them act as if their feelings are the only ones that matter. Their mourning is the only true mourning. Their rage is the only true rage. This is doubly true for the divine beings that populate the story, as stated earlier. I seriously cannot fathom being this level of selfish, and I sincerely pray that I never become this wrapped up in myself. If I do, some one please punch me in the throat and snap me out of it, will you? “Why so much grief for me? No man will hurl me down to Death, against my fate. And fate? No one alive has ever escaped it, neither brave man nor coward, I tell you - it’s born with us the day that we are born.”Unrelated to anything, but I could also go the rest of my life without hearing anyone else referred to as “god-like” or their speech referred to as “winged words.” Those terms were exasperatingly overused. However, there are some truly beautiful lines mixed into the free verse, and those almost made up for the repetition mentioned. I know both of these observations are subject to change based on which translation you choose to read. I bounced between the Caroline Alexander translation and the Robert Fagles translation, both of which were lovely.“No man or woman born, coward or brave, can shun his destiny.”I respect The Iliad. I know it’s among the earliest literary pieces we have, and that it paved the way for countless stories that followed. But, as with the times I read this epic in the past, whether in part or entirety, I just can’t enjoy something that makes me roll my eyes this hard or groan this often. That opinion is incredibly subjective, and I know many people who disagree. But the abundance of wholly preventable violence, and the lack of anything else to break up said violence, just isn’t at all enjoyable for me. Thankfully, The Odyssey comes after this, and I know that it’s far and above more entertaining. I may not care for the tale of the Trojan War, but Odysseus’s return trip is wild and I’m eager to dive back into it.Another buddy read with TS!You can find this review and more at Novel Notions.
4252125903	101st book of 2021. Artist for this review is French painter Jacques-Louis David (1748-1825). About time I finally read the whole thing. I studied The Odyssey alone during college because I messed up my third year exam on Hannibal Barca. I didn't fail, but I didn't get the grade I wanted. In my second year I'd dropped Psychology anyway (who knew there was so much science?) and took up their brand new course in Creative Writing. So I was staying an extra year anyway to finish that. I hit a hurdle though: they were dropping Hannibal Barca and instead studying Homer's The Odyssey; this meant I would have to attend first-year lectures as a third-year student. I declined and asked to do the preparing alone with the lecture notes. They advised me not to so I did that. I can't remember what I got but I remember feeling pretty arrogant about it, it wasn't bad. Anyway, through studying The Odyssey we (I) looked at Homer (the idea of Homer?) and fragments of The Iliad. I preferred The Odyssey in every way and never bothered to read the other, and had enough work to do anyway. So now I have."The Anger of Achilles"—1819I'm going to go ahead and presume everyone knows the story and more importantly who dies in it. If you don't then don't read on, I'll be talking about the plot points of the text. I think our general culture has done a disservice to The Iliad and its plotting. The Iliad is centred around a particular, as the blurb identifies it, "episode" of the Trojan War. The arc is really about Achilles and not about Achilles—as most know, he sulks for most of the story. But the beginning of the "episode" triggers Achilles' sulk, which triggers the bloodshed that takes most of the story's time and energy, which becomes so bloody (and personal) that Achilles decides to stop sulking and finishes it all off at last. But not quite. The ending of The Iliad for me is more poignant than a fuller idea of the story as we see in Miller's version, The Song of Achilles, and the famous Brad Pitt film, Troy. After 300 pages of war between men and Gods, The Iliad ends on the idea that Achilles ultimately finds peace through virtue. Revenge does nothing; further revenge via attempting to mutilate the body does nothing; it is only by allowing Priam to take his son's body and give him a funeral that Achilles finds "peace". The Iliad ends. In a sense we have a rather "modern" character arc, selfishness to selflessness. We know Achilles later dies, we know about the big wooden horse, but none of this actually matters as Priam is kissing the hands of the man who killed his son and simply begging him to have time to grieve. Achilles' death is to do with the war and the end of The Iliad almost forgets the war. In some ways it makes me wonder if it the first anti-war piece of literature, that after all of that, Achilles' sulking for all those men to die, for Patroclus to die, for him to kill Hector even, all for nothing. Or, as Homer has it, all of that for Achilles to learn and exercise humanity. "Male Nude known as Hector"—1778The Iliad is inferior to The Odyssey but like I said in one of my updates, I have a soft spot for Odysseus and he is one of my favourite fictional ancient Greek/Roman heroes. Not all of the The Iliad is completely compelling. At times the constant descriptions of death begin to wear one down. Every person who dies in the poem is named, which gives them all a certain gravity but also makes it seem denser. As far as The Odyssey goes, with Odysseus as the character (and a better one than Achilles), the story being more varied and the concept of a man returning home perhaps being the most fundamental and almost the most important story there is, the idea of home, the self, family, etc., I can't accept it being lesser to this. But, to this day, The Iliad reverberates with the desire to be listened to, that mindless, incessant bloodshed leads to nothing and in the end all that is left are the grieving. So 4-stars for the ending alone with Achilles and Priam, though the rest deserves it too. Achilles is nothing compared to Odysseus. I'm hoping soon to compare them both with Aeneas. I can't decide that if a text as old as this still makes us think, does that make it a brilliant text or should it make us feel sad that there are still lessons (about war no less) that have not yet been learnt? "The Funeral Games of Patroclus"—1778
5346615183	Przeczytałam tylko dlatego, że jest to ulubiona książka Donny Tartt.
5447092414	fellas, is it gay to want your dear companion's ashes and yours to be combined and buried in the same place so you can be together even in death?
1752355925	Κανονικά θα πρέπει να αφαιρέσω ένα αστεράκι από όλα τα βιβλία που έπεσαν στα χέρια μου μέχρι σήμερα.Και εξηγούμαι.Πριν πολλά πολλά χρόνια, όταν πρωτοδιάβασα το Όνομα του Ρόδου, υπήρχε στην αρχή του βιβλίου μία σκηνή όπου ο Έκο περιγράφει με τη σημείωση "η ζωγραφική είναι η λογοτεχνία των φτωχών" ένα βιτρό που κοσμεί τους τοίχους του μοναστηριού. Μέσα σε κοντά δέκα σελίδες ξεπετιούνται σύμπαντα ολόκληρα, ζωές και άνθρωποι και έρωτες και πίκρες και εικόνες πολύχρωμες, μία αλληλουχία διαδοχικών αλληλεπιδρούμενων κοσμων που αφορούσαν μία μοναχά ταπεινή τοιχογραφία. Ομολογώ πως την Ιλιάδα δεν την είχα διαβάσει ΠΟΤΕ ολόκληρη. Πάντα πίστευα πως "ξερω την υπόθεση άσε που έχω δει και την ταινία με τον Μπραντπίτ", πάντα πίστευα πως τελειώνει με τον Δούρειο Ίππο, δυστυχώς για μένα η ραψωδία Ω κλείνει με το "και έτσι ετάφη ο Έκτορας" (wtf!!!!). Και αυτό γιατί οπως όλοι μας, έτσι και εγώ την ειχα διδαχτεί στο σχολείο με τον λάθος τρόπο αλλά πάντα είχα στην καρδιά μου τη ραψωδία Σ, στην οποία ο ποιητής περιγράφει μέσα σε τέσσερις σελίδες την Ασπίδα του Αχιλλέα, που ο ίδιος ο Ήφαιστος έφτιαξε μετά το θάνατο του Πάτροκλου παραγγελία της Θέτιδας ώστε ο ηρωας να εκδικηθεί το θάνατο του αδερφικού φίλου του με τις τιμές που άρμοζαν σε θεό. Και δεν είχα κάνει ποτέ το συσχετισμό με τον θείο Ουμπέρτο και τον τρόπο που είχε διαλέξει να αποδώσει τιμές στο Απόλυτο Λογοτεχνικό Αριστούργημα όλων των εποχών, στο ομορφότερο παραμύθι του κόσμου.Η πολυπλοκότητα του σύμπαντος των χαρακτήρων και η εξέλιξη αυτών, οι μάχες και πάνω από όλα ο σεβασμός με τον οποίον στέκοντας διαρκώς όλοι τόσο απέναντι στους Θεούς όσο και απέναντι στους εχθρούς τους, είναι από μόνα τους αρκετά για να βάλουν το έργο που από όλους χαρακτηρίζεται ως "ο ορισμός του έπους" στη θέση του σημαντικότερου βιβλίου που έπεσε ποτέ στα χέρια μου. Και κάθε άλλο παρά τυχαίο είναι το γεγονός πως η Ιλιαδα διδάσκεται στα σχολεία όλης της γης όπως επίσης και το γεγονός πως ο Καζαντζάκης αφιέρωσε σημαντικό μέρος της ζωή του στη μετάφραση του έργου (ο Κακριδής στην εισαγωγή της Οδύσσειας αναφέρει πως εκδόθηκε το 1955 μετά από δουλειά που κράτησε συνολικά 14 χρόνια!). Γιατί η Ιλιάδα δεν είναι μόνο οι απίθανα ιστορούμενες στιγμές της μάχης, δεν είναι η πίκρα για τα δεινά του πολέμου, δεν είναι οι αναρίθμητοι υπερήρωες που διαρκώς γλιτώνουν το θάνατο με τις παρεμβάσεις των θεών, δεν είναι ο δειλός Αγαμέμνωνας, δεν είναι ο πολυμήχανος Οδυσσέας, δεν είναι ο θηριώδης Αίαντας, δεν είναι ο Παρης που δε δίνει με τίποτα πίσω την Ελένη του, δεν είναι ο χαροκαμένος Πρίαμος, είναι ο τρόπος με τον οποίο οι πάντες έχουν μάθει και αντιμετωπίζουν τη ροή της ζωής και την υστεροφημία τους. Οι μάχες ολοκληρώνονται με τιμές και δώρα προς τους αντιπάλους και σπονδές στους θεούς, οι εκεχειρίες δε σπάνε ποτέ, όσοι σκυλεύουν τους νεκρούς έχουν κακό τέλος, φίλοι και εχθροί τρώνε στο ιδιο τραπέζι, και ο θάνατος παραμονεύει διαρκώς θνητούς και αθανάτους χωρίς όμως κανείς ποτέ να τον φοβάται και να τρέχει σαν δειλός μακριά του.Με λίγα λόγια. Έπος.
766319011	نبرد معروف آخیلس و هکتور منقوش بر کوزه ای قدیمی؛ در زیر پای جنگجویان، جسد پتروکلس دوست آخیلس افتاده استایلیاد، سروده ی هومر، معروف ترین حماسه سرای یونانه که ماجرای جنگی ده ساله بین یونانیان و ایلیون (یا همون تروی) رو بازگو میکنه. بسیاری از اسطوره های یونانی (خدایان ساکن کوه المپ، قهرمانان بزرگ، مثل آخیلس و هکتور و...) رو ما امروزه فقط از طریق این کتاب میشناسیم. اما چیزی که این حماسه رو برای من که اسطوره شناس یا متخصص ادبیات یونان باستان نیستم، خیلی خیلی درخشان میکنه، سه چیزه: یکی داستان پردازی قدرتمند، دوم شخصیت پردازی استادانه و سوم توصیفات دقیق و گیرا.داستان پردازیداستان، بسیار درخشانه. ارتباط علّی و معلولی وقایع با هم دیگه مثل یه ریسمان محکم، کل داستان رو به هم متصل میکنه. هر چیزی علتی داره و حتا دخالت خدایان در جنگ هم تابع انگیزه ها و دلایل داستانیه. همچنین وقایعی که رخ میدن، خیلی زیبا و دراماتیک هستن. حسادت ایزدبانوان و به داوری طلبیدن پاریس، قهر کردن آخیلس و کناره گیری از جنگ، سوگواری آخیلس بر رفیقش و انتقام گرفتنش و...شخصیت پردازیشخصیت پردازی، به قدری استادانه است که آدم فکر میکنه داستان در صد ساله ی اخیر نوشته شده، و نه 2800 یا به روایتی 4000 سال قبل. شخصیت ها، تک بعدی نیستن: انسان هستن، هزار بُعد دارن. واکنش هاشون به قدری طبیعیه که آدم فکر میکنه اگه من هم بودم همین کار رو می کردم. حتا خدایان هم از این قاعده مستثنا نیستن. حسادت ایزدبانوان، کاملاً انسانیه. قهر کردن آخیلس کاملاً انسانیه. بی حرمتی آخیلس به جسد هکتور به خاطر شدت خشمش، کاملاً انسانیه. و صدها مثال دیگه.توصیفاتو نهایتاً، توصیفات بسیار بسیار دقیق و گیرا هستن. توصیفات رزم هاش، به قدری جزئی و پر از ریزه کاری های جذّابه که آدم فکر میکنه هر جنگ رو با الهام از یه جنگ واقعی که خودش شخصاً حضور داشته توصیف کرده. آخیلس زره هکتور رو برانداز میکنه تا نقطه ی ضعفش رو پیدا کنه، مِنِلِس کلاهخود پاریس رو میگیره و میکشه تا با بند کلاهخود، پاریس رو خفه کنه و...
5818588353	In the ninth year of the Trojan War, Greek victories have led to Agamemnon taking Chryseis and Achilles taking Briseis. Following Chryseis' father's prayers to Apollo, a pestilence afflicts the Greeks. Agamemnon releases Chryseis but demands Briseis, which sullies Achilles' honour. Achilles is ropeable and refuses to fight. With capricious gods supporting both sides, the Trojans drive the Greeks back. Petroclus--Achilles' lover--is killed by Hector. This ignites Achilles' rage. He returns and kills Hector yet keeps the body for the dogs. Priam--Hector's father and King of Troy--begs Achilles for Hector's return. Recognising Priam's humanity, Achilles relents. This is a hyper-masculine story. The Trojan War is underpinned by Helen of Sparta being taken to Troy by Paris. This sparks conflict as men on each side view her as their property. Agamemnon and Achilles' feud also arose from their possessiveness over captured women. For time immemorial, women have been seen as 'spoils of war'. It was only in 2008 when the United Nations Security Council recognised sexual violence as a war crime. Modern veneration of this ancient story somewhat downplays ongoing male sexual violence towards women in warfare. This enduring reality is presently exemplified by Russians using sexual violence as a weapon of war in Ukraine. This tale prominently features graphic battle scenes, including descriptions of mushed brains and eviscerations. This grows tiresome over 700 pages. However, a poignant moment unfolds in Book 24 when Priam seeks the return of Hector's body. Achilles is a selfish demi-god that glories in the slaughter of his enemies. However, he briefly sheds his callous façade when viewing the bond of a mortal father and son. This scene exposes war's futility and its destructiveness. While Patroclus was avenged, Achilles remains distraught, and the Trojans are left in despair. Furthermore, this choice seals Achilles' fate for a future demise at the hands of Paris. Even in victory, war remains pyrrhic to the soul.
4289122619	Možda je glupo što ovo pišem... Šta ja da napišem o Ilijadi? Opet, da sam zapisao, bilo bi mi interesantno pročitati šta sam mislio kad sam je pročitao u gimnaziji. Sećam se da sam je čitao na glas, da bi uopšte razumeo šta piše u tom heksametru. Naravno, tako je i nastala i prenosila se. Dođe recitator u grad i 3 ili 4 dana zaredom recituje Ilijadu, ljudi slušaju. I drugo, Ahilej mi je bio jako kul lik (zašto, Nikola?!)(Ilijada i Odiseja su nastale u vreme kad su Grci zaboravili da pišu. Kako ovo naučiš na pamet, a da nemaš tekst pred sobom? Kako je uopšte nastala ako je nisu zapisali - kako je Homer naučio to što je pričao? I kako su ih prvi put zapisali? Neko naučio da piše, pa dođe drugi i recituje? Pisar ipak piše na papirus, sporo je to. Ili je recitator naučio da piše, pa je seo da odradi taj posao?)Pročitavši je ponovo... Da li je moguće da je nešto što je nastalo pre 3,000 godine, ujedno i nešto najbolje što je ikad napisano?----------Zapažanja.1. Sve je s jedne strane jako čudno - bajka sa mitovima, nadljudskom snagom, čudnim bogovima. A opet, toliko poznato i nakon 3,000 godina. Ti bogovi su tako slični nama, Ahilejev bes i sujetu mogu da zamislim kod nekog političara, kao i Hektorovu brigu za svoju porodicu i grad.2. Katalog brodova je sranje, ne treba se mučiti. Koliko ljudi odustane od čitanja u drugom pevanju?3. Ponovo sam iznenađen da je ovo priča o samo 10 dana rata (mada, ne slaže mi se nešto taj tajming, pred kraj se spominju drugačija trajanja, neko je pogrešno zapamtio šta je Homer pričao). Počinje usred priče, i završava se usred priče. A jedan, onaj najduži dan Hektorove super-moći, traje maltene trećinu Ilijade.4. Neke scene se ponavljaju, bukvalno reč po reč se koriste isti stihovi. Stilski alat ili nešto što je pomagalo recitatorima da je lakše nauče? I šta je sa "kravookom" Herom i "Ahejcima sa zlatnim nazuvcima"?5. Kako je samo Ahilej ispsovao Agamemnona na početku. Ovaj je kralj, zaboga. I da li je Ahilej preterao sa svojim durenjem? Koliko smrti je naneo Grcima dok se nije borio? I uspeo ozbiljno da posvađa bogove.6. Bogovi su sjajni. Nisu uvek dobri, ljubazni ili pravedni. (Da li je naš koncept boga pogrešan?) Bogovi nisu svemoćni, a ni sveznajući. Imaju mnogo ljudskih mana - ako ih gledamo iz tačke ljudi u Ilijadi, moćni su i izuzetni, ali ako ih gledamo iz tačke naratora, onda su sitni i sujetni do zlaboga. Nisu stvorili svet, nemaju simpatije ni ljubavi prema ljudima (imaju prema nekima, ako su im to deca koju su napravili sa ljudima, na primer). A opet, toliko su sjajni. Ne mogu da izaberem najomiljenijeg boga. Prepričavao ćerki - ona sad priča po školi da smo mi u porodici sad ipak religiozni, ali smo politeisti. 7. Najomiljeniji lik među Grcima? Odisej ili Ajant? Porota još zaseda. 8. Trojanci nisu varvari, pričaju grčki, poštuju iste bogove. Ali su ipak neprijatelji. Trebalo bi da navijamo za Grke. Ali Trojanci su simpatičniji - ne bore se (samo) za čast i slavu, bore se za život, za svoj grad, za svoje porodice. Žene i deca će im biti silovana i/ili porobljena. Hektor je ljudsko biće - komandant, sin, brat, muž, otac... Njegove scene sa ženom i sinom su među boljima u Ilijadi. S druge strane, Grci mogu da izgube samo svoj život. Ahilej je nečovečji, kao neki super-heroj. Izolovan je, povukao se iz društva. Hladan, nerazuman, sebičan, sujetan, pred kraj skrnavljenjem neprijatelja potpuni varvarin. Ne razume smrt, plače kao mala beba. 9. Bogovi ne mogu biti povređeni, ne mogu umreti. Stoga, kod njih ne postoji hrabrost. Da li to znači da su ljudi bolji od bogova?10. Simpatično su prepričane bitke u najdužem, Hektorovom, danu. Ako ih čitaš kako ih vide ljudi u Ilijadi, onda ti je sve logično, možeš da zamisliš da se sve tako i desilo. Oni su ti koji utiču na događaje i na smrt. Ali mi, čitaoci, znamo toliko više. Vidimo šta su u tim bitkama uradili Zevs, Hera, Apolon, Iris, Arej... Čitajući paralelno - neverovatno je to mešanje u sudbinu pojedinaca. Čime se ti ljudi (khm, bogovi) bave. Opet, postoje delovi kad Zevs želi da se umeša i spase nekoga, a drugi bogovi mu ne daju. Ne možeš da sprečiš sudbinu, kažu mu otprilike. 11. Ono kad Hera zavodi Zevsa, da mu odvrati pažnju. Najduhovitiji deo Ilijade? 12. Zbog čega nemam nikakve emocije prema Patroklu? On je neki sporedan glumac koji dobija veliku slavu, ali je to s razlogom da umre, da bi se priča nastavila? Ili je nešto ipak u njegovom ponašanju? 13. Da li sam dobro razumeo da svim ljudi imaju jednu sudbinu, a Ahilej ima dve, može da bira? Ako se vrati kući, živeće srećno i dugo. Ali ako ostane da se bori, umreće i zaradiće večnu slavu. Zapravo nije baš tako lako izabrao, čini mi se. Ne samo da se durio zbog Briseide, nego mi se čini da je zaista razmišljao o ovome. Naravno, ovo je ep, a slava je za Grke imala toliku vrednost, da nije moglo drugačije. 14. "Tako su oni pogrebli konjomoru Hektora borca." Kraj. Čekaj, gde je Ahilejeva smrt? Gde je Ahilova peta? Trojanski konj? Pad Troje, paljenje, silovanje? Da mogu da mi kažu da mogu da pročitam (izgubljeni?) ep o tome, ali da moram to da platim danima stvarnog života - koliko dana bih dao?
2854089472	طوری که خدایان رو توصیف میکرد، جالب بود، خوشم میاد:زئوس که تندر در دستان اوست و سپر دارد;هرا که بازوان سفید و مرمری داردآکلیس که پاهای چابک و زیبا داردآتنا که چشمانی آسمانگون دارد...ایلیاد داستان کاملی از بازیچه و اسباب بازی خدایان بودن آدمهاست. آدمهایی که به محضر خدایانشون دعا میکردن، قربانی میدادن، دلاوری و رشادتها میکردن...ولی همه ش برای هیچی...درواقع جنگ بین مردم یونان و تروا، جنگ بین خدایان بود. زئوس و آرس و آفرودیت یه طرف، هرا و آتنا طرف دیگه...و این وسط، پهلوانها قربانی میشدن...آکلیس، هکتور، منلائوس، پاتروکلس و آژاکس و ...از خوندنش لذت بردم. انگار واقعا توی جنگ با اونا بودم و حتی صدای جنگ رو هم میشنیدم...توصیفاتش عالی بود، به خصوص صحنه کشته شدن پاتروکلس، چقدر عجیب توصیف کرده بود: احساس میکردم دارم این صحنه از فیلم رو با دور کند نگاه میکنم...وقتی فوبوس جوشن و زوبینشو ازش گرفت...وقتی اوفوب آدمیزاد از پشت بهش نیزه زد و وقتی هکتور با شمشیرش پهلوشو درید...رجز خوندن ها و تهدید ها و حرفهای قبل از مرگشون خیلی قشنگ بود...چقدر کتاب با فیلمش فرق میکنه...چقدر قشنگ و حماسی نوشته...دوستت دارم شاعر نابینای یونانبه زودی میام به سرزمینت🙌❤همین.پ‌ن: بعد از خوندن کتاب song of achilles، الان صحنه کشته شدن پاتروکلس و رفتار آکلیس بیشتر برام معنا پیدا کرده و غم‌انگیزتر هم شده...😔
2782218062	“My dear comrade’s dead—Patroclus—the man I loved beyond all other comrades,loved as my own life—I’ve lost him…[…]My spirit rebels—I’ve lost the will to live, to take my stand in the world of men—unless, before all else, Hector’s battered down by my spear and gasps away his life, the blood-price for Patroclus…”Etching by Pietro Testa.Of course, the Iliad is a story of violence and valor. It famously begins with the “rage of Achilles,” and there are stabbings, beheadings, and crushing blows on almost every page—which is why I find it funny (and slightly disturbing) that I was completely swept up in the beauty of its language, endlessly rereading the lines, in absolute awe, where an eye would be gouged out by a spear or a severed head would roll in the dust. It was all overwhelming. I wish I could memorize every word.
4537372651	Ha sido difícil terminarlo. No tengo ninguna duda de que es el libro más denso que he leído aún así algo me animaba a continuar. He aprendido mucho de los dioses griegos y el lenguaje que usa Homero de por si es precioso cuente lo que cuente pero encima hay escenas súper emotivas. Lo recomiendo , eso sí, hay que cogerlo con ganas.
3782446704	51 ημέρες που συγκλόνισαν τον κόσμο!
2265217594	سعی کنید هیچ‌وقت زنِ کسی رو ندزدید.
2808643431	Desde que descubrí que la Ilíada tenía una frase que me iba a servir para mi trabajo de grado fijé como meta leerme el libro. Antes había tenido muchas ganas de leermelo, pero esta vez era diferente porque estaba de por medio mi salud mental, siento que si yo no me leo un libro que me tiene obsesionada no voy a poder seguir bien. Sé que puede sonar extraño, pero los libros son gran parte de mi vida, ellos dirigen cada uno de mis pasos, mis decisiones, mis pensamientos. Yo no sé qué haría en un mundo sin libros, probablemente no existiría. La frase que me ayudó para mi tesis es la siguiente: "Nadie, pues, se dé prisa por volver a su casa hasta haber dormido con la esposa de un troyano y haber vengado la huida y los gemidos de Helena". Esta frase la relacino en mi tesis con la violación sexual utilizada como arma de guerra y otras frases que encuentro en el libro fueron igual de fructíferas cómo está. Tengo mucho que agradecer a la iliada y la Odisea porque son unos libros que me han inspirado profundamente y yo se lo recomendaría a cualquier persona con los ojos cerrados, eso sí a una persona que sea paciente y que quiera desarrollar un gusto por la mitología grecorromana. Además me han inspirado en mis escritos, resulta que los verbos encliticos son mi debilidad, los amo.Recomiendo que primero te leas la Ilíada, luego la Odisea y después La Divina Comedia si quieres leerte específicamente estos tres libros. En resumen: ¿Que tal es la Iliada? ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Excelente libro
2668918485	IM FREEEEEE WORST EXPERIENCE OF MY LIFEEEEEEEE
270436131	Am I really going to bother reviewing Homer’s _Iliad_? I mean, what am I going to say that hasn’t been said by generations of scholars, reviewers or readers? Does another drop in the ocean matter? Well, even if it doesn’t I’ll give it a go I guess. Reading the _Iliad_ was mostly done by me as a correction to a perceived gap in my education. I had always known bits and pieces about the poem and its heroes from various sources and the culture in general, but I had never read the poem itself. Given that it is a foundational text (perhaps *the* foundational text along with its sister epic The Odyssey) of the western canon it’s a pretty big gap. Well, I did it! I found myself both compelled and, I will admit it, sometimes bored by the text (though mostly only when we came upon the epic tradition of having the lineage of each character spelled out in gruesome detail before said hero was gruesomely despatched by an enemy’s spear thrust). Still, once I made it through Book II’s interminable catalogue of the Achaean heroes who came to Troy along with the number of ships and men they brought with them I knew that nothing could stop me.My biggest surprise was probably the way in which the heroes, all seemingly spawned by gods, are not all that unlike superheroes in a comic book: forces of raw destruction whose primary wish is for glory and the mad rush of violence and battle. And yet even these great figures pale next to the gods who play them like puppets on a string watching events unfold before them and giving a nudge here and there when the outcome for their favored side is in doubt (indeed, for me some of the most humourous moments came about when a god would unceremoniously pluck a warrior from the ground and punt him into the distance in order to keep him safe like some giant hand in a gamer’s favourite RTS strategy game). It was these images and analogies, inadequate as they may seem, that kept springing to mind for me as I read of the epic battle between the Achaeans and the Trojans. It was, in that sense at least, a surprisingly modern text for me. The poem is chock-full, on both sides of the conflict, of men who are larger than life. Of course the great exemplars of each side, Achilles and Hector, stand heads and shoulders above the rest, but both armies are lousy with seeming giants whose every action in battle is a superhuman carnage fest; the roll call of the Achaeans alone is impressive: wily Odysseus, prideful Agamemnon, wise Nestor, courageous Diomedes, and both the Greater and the Lesser Ajax. Of course, if you’re not a hero and don’t boast either a god or at least a royal personage in your near lineage, then you’re really just spear fodder whose primary purpose is to allow the real fighters to show off their skill in the art of death-dealing. Indeed fighting is all about the individual fighter's glory and his desire for booty...stripping the corpses is more important than pursuing a tactical advantage. Ego is all. This is a frightening vision of what a world of superheroes might look like with the lowly peons at the whim of their violence and glory-seeking. The boast and the taunt are also on full display. Each hero seeks to undermine his opponent with a war of words before the spear has even left his hand. Lineages are vaunted, or disparaged; deeds are proclaimed, or ridiculed; most of all threats are made and reciprocated. Old Spidey of the glib tongue has nothing on these guys. (“I too could battle the deathless gods with words — it's hard with a spear, the gods are so much stronger. Not even Achilles can bring off all his boasts…” – Hector)The violence in the poem is explicit and all-pervasive, a veritable orgy of death and dismemberment. From the brains splattered inside helmets by a spear’s intrusion, to the “lethal hit that’s loosed [a body’s] springy limbs”, we are constantly presented with a panoply of violence that brings down the mists of death, a “dark [that] came whirling down across [their] eyes”, upon the stricken warriors. Homer was apparently no prude and was happy to indulge his audience’s apparent appetite for such scenes. The battle scenes are also truly cinematic, both in their colourful gore and in the superhuman skill displayed by the combatants, as foe after foe is handily dispatched in an almost balletic whirl of pure violence. Achilles is perhaps the most conspicuous in this, no more so than when he at last enters the fray near the end of the poem, maddened at the death of his friend Patroclus, and fells Trojans left and right: Achilles now like inhuman fire raging on through the mountain gorges splinter-dry, setting ablaze big stands of timber, the wind swirling the huge fireball left and right — chaos of fire — Achilles storming on with brandished spear like a frenzied god of battle trampling all he killed and the earth ran black with blood.…so as the great Achilles rampaged on, his sharp-hoofed stallions trampled shields and corpses, axle under his chariot splashed with blood, blood on the handrails sweeping round the car, sprays of blood shooting up from the stallions' hoofs and churning, whirling rims — and the son of Peleus charioteering on to seize his glory, bloody filth splattering both strong arms, Achilles' invincible armsIndeed the rage of Achilles is a primal thing. The seemingly excessive violence of his comrades and their enemies prior to his entering the fray is made to seem a pale, simpering thing in comparison. Achilles is a whirl of bloodlust, hatred and retribution whose only aim is the eradication of the Trojans and their great prince Hector as payment for the death of his old friend. Despite the great power that each of these heroes displays, it is not necessarily an altogether innate function of the hero’s mighty thews and prowess alone, for it is made evident throughout the text that the real perquisite for success is the blessing of a god, regardless of the native power and skill of the individual fighter. The gods seem at first content to mostly sit on the sidelines, restricting themselves to aiding and abetting their favourite hero with a nudge here and a push there until, with the advent of Achilles and his killing rage, even Zeus fears that the outcome of the battle may change and the decrees of fate may be unbalanced by a mere mortal. He then lets the gods loose and they fight for their chosen sides in a free-for-all that is impressive in its violence and imagery where one telling things comes immediately to the fore: the gods are much less interested in maintaining the balance of fate for the betterment of the cosmos than they are at using this excuse to fight their own grudge matches against perceived and real slights from their divine rivals. In many ways the gods are perhaps even more prevalent in the battle for Troy than are the human participants. This is fitting given the fact that a contest amongst the major goddesses, and the perceived slight of its result by the losers, were the direct antecedents to the war that would destroy a civilization. I’m not sure how Paris could have judged the beauty contest between Aphrodite, Athena and Hera in a way that wouldn’t have ended in bloodshed and mass genocide, but he certainly didn’t try very hard once the goddess of love dangled the prospect of Menelaus’ beauteous wife before him. This picking of love above worldly authority or wisdom and supremacy in war may seem like a purely pacific and even noble choice, but it often seems that even love as expressed in _The Iliad_ appears to be a fundamentally selfish thing. Helen, the human paradigm of beauty, and her divine patron Aphrodite, are both interested in ‘love’ not as something that expresses affection or devotion to another, but rather something that glorifies the self. Helen’s beauty is a great power and she uses it to glorify her own position. She deserts her husband and child for Paris and even this ‘love’ seems to be more a reflection of her own egoism and an expression of her power over him than any sort of true affection for the son of Priam. That being said there is one set of relationships that seem to look beyond the demands of heroic culture and the vanity of the self: these are primarily seen in the quiet moments of humanity in Hector’s love for his wife and child (and really for all of his family, even spoiled bratty Paris, and for Troy itself). One could also point to the love of Priam for his dead son, and the need to redeem his mutilated corpse at any cost (even unto walking into the enemy camp with only a servant and a cart full of booty), as another example of the love of others overcoming the love of self. There were a plethora of great moments in the poem, but this review is already getting overlong, so allow me to simply name the ones that immediately spring to mind: the night raid of Diomedes and Odysseus into the Trojan lines, the lone stand and battle cry of Odysseus after the Achaeans run in terror from pursuing Trojan warriors, the coming ashore of the Nereids at the bidding of Thetis to comfort Achilles, Athena’s arming with the storm-shield of Zeus, the gathering of the Rivers in Olympus, Hephaestus boiling a river god in his own bed in defence of Achilles, and the empowerment of Achilles before his death-dealing drive amongst the Trojans to name but a few. In the end this was a greatly entertaining read that surprised me in many ways. Of course, it wasn’t all dismemberment and bloody glory, there was human suffering and despair (both at the hands of the ‘heroes’ and of the gods) and many questions raised about freewill versus one’s fate (Fate seems to have the deck stacked in his favour). I was constantly surprised at little touches made by Homer: Zeus being wooed by Hera so she could distract him from aiding the Trojans (in the course of which he enumerates the allures of his former lovers as part of his seduction strategy…what a charmer!); Hector deciding to leave his men to face death alone in a tight moment and the twin episode of Hector’s very real fear of death, such a great fear that he actually runs away from Achilles in panic before deciding to face his fate (not exactly the inhuman hero I was expecting to see); Agamemnon showing himself to be a blustering politician, attempting to save face and excuse himself at the same time as he tries to apologize to Achilles. The fact that the poem both begins and ends in medias res may leave some modern readers a bit baffled (we enter the fray ten years after the war’s inception and leave with the city of Troy still standing), but it truly is a tour de force of the poet’s art. Whether Homer was one man or many, whether he composed it primarily from an amalgam of the existing tradition of epic poetic devices or it came primarily from the mind of a genius it is a work that does stand the test of time and is well worth the time of any reader (or listener) ancient or modern.
5869639226	I loved Edith Wilson’s translation exactly as much as I expected to, which is a whole lot, but also I feel disappointed on some level, and when I asked myself why I realized I’d set maybe an impossible bar for the translation. For any translation but an even more impossible bar for a poem that’s been translated so many times before. I wanted it to reveal some new truth to me that I hadn’t read before. Or, I wanted to be moved by a scene that hadn’t moved me the last time. It didn’t happen. The same sections moved me in the same way as with Fagles, Lattimore, Mitchell, others. Above all, as always, I was undone by the meeting of Priam and Achilles, one of the great tragic scenes of all time, full of such grief and futility and common humanity, and quietness, after so much fury. As always I cried at the final words, the final sigh, not even a lament but just a recording of the burial of Hector, breaker of horses. My feeling as I read to the end of this long poem is very close to the feeling I have when I listen to the final great lament of the aria ‘Mild und Leise’ from Wagner’s Tristan, so gorgeous and heartbreaking on its own but all the more so if you sit and listen to the four hours of music that came before.
4008839770	‘‘La Ilíada’’ es una historia amplia y estratificada sobre la guerra que mezcla los mundos del individuo con el de su "nación" y con el de los grandes dioses divinos inmortales, donde cada capa es fascinante. Como historia sobre la guerra, también es una historia sobre la destrucción de vidas y la insensibilización cada vez mayor de los lectores. Por esta razón y muchas otras, ‘‘La Ilíada’’ es una historia profundamente inquietante.Encontrarse con esta obra es como entrar en un museo donde numerosos productos de importancia secundaria o terciaria en galerías más pequeñas conducen hacia un gran atrio central que contiene la Ilíada. El poema es el centro estético de toda la colección. Ésta es la gran paradoja de la literatura griega: no se abre con algo rudo, primitivo, que necesita desarrollo o refinamiento. No, lo que tenemos es una obra de una perfección tan asombrosa que sigue siendo el estándar con el que se mide todo lo demás.Muchos hombres mueren en esta historia, en la cual, cada uno de ellos tiene alguna habilidad legendaria, alguna vida prometedora, que es interrumpida por otro que tiene otra habilidad legendaria y otra vida prometedora. Cada hombre tiene un nombre adicional adjunto al suyo, el de su padre, que lamentará su pérdida. Con esto, Homero retrata con una honestidad inquebrantable el terrible costo de la guerra, donde se destruyen vidas, se destrozan familias y las ciudades están condenadas a la destrucción. La muerte de cada hombre es dramática, gráfica, cuerpo a cuerpo y cara a cara, un concurso en el que todos los hombres son iguales y, sin embargo, ninguno es tan bueno como Aquiles. Este hombre cuya gloria se hace por su gran poder, que solo se revela por su gran vanidad. Se niega a luchar durante años y, como resultado, todo el ejército de su nación es casi aniquilado por completo.Creo que vale la pena mencionar mucho sobre el alcance de los personajes que se exhiben en este cuento, porque vale la pena señalar que ninguno de ellos es particularmente detallado o completo. De hecho, diría que estos personajes son profundamente superficiales. No obstante, esto no me importó, aunque la falta de desarrollo del personaje era algo confusa. Dicho esto, me permitió construir una comprensión muy simple de los hombres y (pocas) mujeres en esta historia, por lo que los conecté casi de manera singular con ciertos rasgos o ideas de carácter. Leer esto fue un trabajo duro debido a que sus muchas páginas están llenas de descripciones gráficas aparentemente interminables de asesinatos en el campo de batalla, pero de vez en cuando hay un pasaje que es tan asombroso o ridículamente sangriento que hace que valga la pena su lectura. En última instancia, esta es una historia maravillosa sobre la guerra, la cual encapsula los extremos de la experiencia humana y la Ilíada lo expresa con palabras. Es hermoso, terrible, estúpido y noble a la vez. A pesar de que los personajes son dioses, semidioses y héroes, todos se sienten totalmente humanos. Son mezquinos e irracionales y se contradicen a diario, pero también se preocupan por el amor, la gloria, el honor y la familia. Muestra que la línea entre el bien y el mal está dentro de cada persona, no entre grupos: amaba y odiaba a los troyanos y a los griegos, según la página en la que estaba en ese momento. Definitivamente se gana su lugar como un clásico atemporal.
3000541530	Έχετε αναρωτηθεί και εσείς γιατί δε διαβάζουμε αρχαίους Έλληνες, τη στιγμή που μανιωδώς καταναλώνουμε τα best sellers που μας πλασάρουν οι εκδοτικοί οίκοι; Γιατί κάποιος να διαβάσει το τραγούδι του Αχιλλέα ενώ υπάρχει η ίδια η Ιλιάδα του Ομήρου; Προσωπικά, μόλις τα τελευταία χρόνια, έχω τολμήσει να το κάνω και ο λόγος ήταν το σχολείο και το εκπαιδευτικό μας σύστημα. Όταν αναγκάζεις ένα παιδί 12 χρονών να διαβάσει «παπαγαλία» δύο από τα σημαντικότερα παγκόσμια έργα (και πόσα άλλα), πώς μπορεί να εκτιμήσει τη σημασία τους; Πώς μπορεί να αντιληφθεί την έννοια των λέξεων; Πώς μπορεί να σχηματίσει άποψη για τον κόσμο και την κοινωνία, ένα παιδί που το προηγούμενο καλοκαίρι διάβαζε Αλμανάκο; Η ανάγνωση τους είναι επιβεβλημένη σε μεγαλύτερη ηλικία για να εκτιμηθεί (ως ένα βαθμό τουλάχιστον, καθώς παραμένει ένα δύσκολο κείμενο) η αξία τους!Στην Ιλιάδα, ένα λιγότερο «φιλοσοφικό» και περισσότερο «περιπετειώδες» βιβλίο, ο Όμηρος (ή όποιος το έγραψε τέλος πάντων) μας διηγείται τις τελευταίες μέρες του Τρωικού πολέμου. Ένα διάστημα 50 ημερών περίπου, από τον δεκαετή πόλεμο, στις οποίες όμως διαδραματίζονται τα σημαντικότερα γεγονότα! Σε αυτό το έπος, κατά κύριο λόγο γίνεται λόγος για τα… «μουτράκια» που κρατάει ο Αχιλλέας στον Αγαμέμνονα λόγω της ύβρεως που διέπραξε όταν έκλεψε την αγαπημένη του σκλάβα, Βρισηίδα, και πως αυτός αρνείται να πολεμήσει μέχρι να τον παρακαλέσει γονυπετής ο Αχαιός βασιλιάς. Πέρα από τον ψυχισμό και τη συμπεριφορά των κεντρικών ηρώων, κατανοούμε ,επίσης, πόσο σημαντικό ρόλο παίζουν οι θεοί στις εξελίξεις της ιστορίας, καθώς κάθε ηρωική πράξη των θνητών, έκρυβε από πίσω της μία θεϊκή συμμετοχή με έμμεσο ή άμεσο τρόπο. Ακόμα, θα καταφέρουμε να αντλήσουμε ενδιαφέρουσες πληροφορίες για τον τρόπο σκέψης και την προετοιμασία για τον πόλεμο, για την ίδια τη μάχη, για τον τρόπο που σέβονταν τους νεκρούς, καθώς και πόσο θρησκευόμενοι ήταν μιας και πριν από κάθε μεγάλη απόφαση, ζητούν βοήθεια και καθοδήγηση από τους θεούς.Ίσως λιγότερο προβεβλημένο, από την Οδύσσεια, αλλά εξίσου σημαντικό για τον παγκόσμιο πολιτισμό. Ένα από τα ελάχιστα έργα που διασώζονται μέχρι και σήμερα και έχουν τέτοια επιρροή στη λογοτεχνία και τη φιλοσοφία. Ένα έργο που λάτρευε και εμπνεύστηκε από αυτό, ο Μέγα Αλέξανδρος, καθώς ο «ψυχισμός» και η συμπεριφορά του Αχιλλέα, επηρέασαν καταλυτικά τον ίδιο!
7805689992	I've finally read The Iliad, and what better way to do so than by reading Emily Wilson's translation of this epic poem. It's so good! Honestly, this masterpiece feels more like a bestselling novel than a poem. If you come across a copy of this saga, consider this translation as your first read. It's written in modern American English, so you'll likely find it easy to pick up and read at a good pace. Although I still had to backtrack and jot down notes because some epic verses just blew me away, it's still somewhat challenging to comprehend fully, given how outdated Greek lore seems compared to modern times.I was never interested in gods manipulating fate or a deity influencing a mortal's battles, but my view changed after reading The Iliad. Why? Primarily, the gods are involved in politicking, divided into different factions, each with their own agenda, and they go to great lengths to undermine each other. They seem more human than, say, godlike Achilles. And the best comparison to Olympus is politicians working a game of chess. They might promise a character something, but then change their minds. They are very fickle when it comes to sacrifices and other matters, and you might see a god helping both sides in a single battle. Oh, and Zeus is incredibly manipulative. The media has us thinking that the god of thunder is some good older man. But after reading this... hehe, he's a pig! But given his strength, it is understandable why the other gods flock to him and bend backwards to try not to piss him off. Oh boy, you're in for a real treat. This is one of the bloodiest sagas I've ever seen. The politics and drama woven into each book (the poem is divided into twenty-four books) improve as the series progresses. It stands in stark contrast to the outdated pop culture imposed by Hollywood. Wolfgang Petersen directed my favourite adaptation. But after reading Homer's work (if he ever existed), it's entirely unrecognisable! The movie, compared to this work, is rubbish. Odysseus makes his debut in the Iliad, but there are limited interactions between him and Achilles. But Petersen did get Hector right. Hector does questionable things, but I found him quite likeable compared to Achilles.Also, Achilles is absent for two-thirds of the work, but some of the most incredible scenes feature a hero I've never even heard about: Diomedes! He's very prominent in the work and is one of the most wished-for (including Odysseus) by the Achaeans to fight Hector in a duel. The man is granted the strength to fight Ares and Aphrodite directly! In a single day! And he manages to injure both gods! There are two Ajaxes, and both are woah. When Achilles does appear, he steals the show. It's so epic that I'll probably be talking about him for a long time. I mean, look at this: "He heeded the instructions of his mother. Pallas Athena hovered over him and screamed. He stood and shouted at the Trojans, and roused in them an overwhelming panic... so loud rang out the war cry of Achilles... His voice of bronze roused fear in every Trojan's heart... Their minds foresaw disaster." The ending. The hell! I was so fooled! All my life, I thought... well, you know how most movies about Troy end. You know those final scenes with the wooden horse? You're telling me that scene is discussed in other works and not this one!? All my life, I believed the poem included that moment, but I was wrong. I read this because I wanted to see that scene, but it never appeared. Well, the more I think about this work, the more I believe it is about Hector and less about Achilles. It's also about the rage of Achilles and the human cost around it. In that, Petersen's movie gets it right when Nestor begs Achilles to engage in a duel: "Look at the men’s faces. You can save hundreds of them. You can end this war with a swing of your sword. Let them go home to their wives." before practically ending that battle with a swing of his sword. 5/5.I'll definitely read this again!As I write this, I find myself comprehending why I dislike a deity's intervention when I am a fan of Greek lore. Why? I want total control of my life, and I see the frustrations of these "heroes" as they do their best to kill, and at their killing stroke, some god whisks away their opponents because said gods do not want some heroes to die pointlessly because they are a favourite. Say Patroclus is in the heat of battle, and Apollo decides to intervene, does that make Hector's victory less, or blessed by luck? Do I want to win a fight because of my extraordinary feats, or do I have some deity whispering carelessly in my ear? Are my choices my own, or have a series of clowns ordained them? Do omens make us gods, or do our talents?This is truly a stellar work. It isn't easy to top it off. A work of magnificence that has stood the test of time, because it's such a deep and enjoyable read. I cannot wait to read The Odyssey.
7335268074	De Ilias is uit. Troje is nog niet verwoest, maar Achilles heeft zijn wrok afgelegd en Hektor is begraven. Ik weet dat Wolf geen rating heeft gegeven, and I understand the reasons, maar zoals wanneer aan de hemel heel helder sterren flonkeren rondom de maan bij helder, windstil weer - alle kapen en hoge voorgebergten en ravijnen lichten op en aan de hemel breekt onmetelijk het uitspansel door, bezaaid met sterren toont die zich, de herder een vreugde (8.556-62), zo mogen van mij deze vijf sterren flonkeren voor Homeros. Mijn fascinatie voor de Ilias en de Odyssee zijn moeilijk onder woorden te brengen. Hier zit gewoon zo veel in. Eeuwen van geschiedenis, taal, religies, gebruiken, verhalen. Er zijn veel vechtscènes ja, de aarde is verzadigd van het bloed, maar ook andere passages over samen eten, feesten, kleren wassen, jagen, natuurverschijnselen, vreugde, liefde, rouw… emoties die niet verschillen van ons vandaag. We voeren allemaal al eeuwen dezelfde strijd. De Ilias is naast het letterlijke gevecht een strijd met het menselijke leven, want we zijn allemaal vergankelijk. Hoe geven we dit leven zin? Kunnen we onsterfelijk worden als de goden? Misschien kan dat maar alleen door taal en verhalen. Daarom sluit ik af met woorden van Helena: οἷσιν ἐπὶ Ζεὺς θῆκε κακὸν μόρον, ὡς καὶ ὀπίσσωἀνθρώποισι πελώμεθ᾽ ἀοίδιμοι ἐσσομένοισιOns gaf Zeus een onzalig lot, opdat wij ook voor het nageslacht een onderwerp blijven voor liederen.(6.358-59)
4402657777	''Let me not then die ingloriously and without a struggle, but first, let me do some great thing that shall be told among men hereafter." Hektor of TroyImagine a cold winter evening, a glass of wine, and the voice of famous Shakespearean actor Derek Jacobi, reading from Robert Fagles's finely crafted translation of the Iliad aloud in your living room. For half an hour or more each night, you can forget about omicron and escape into the poetry of a grand epic.It's been over ten years since I last read the Iliad in the original; however, I enjoyed it more this time. Although my husband and I followed along, book in hands, we realized that Homer needed to be heard. The Iliad is an oral performance, and at times I would close my eyes and listen. A lecture series that we took simultaneously enhanced our enjoyment.The Iliad is an epic classic. But, unfortunately, I can't do it justice in a summary or critique. However, I found listening to an outstanding performance profoundly moving. The poetry, characters, and conflicts have a timeless quality that goes to the heart of what it means to be human..
