3410083786	babe, wake up, someone published a twitter thread critiquing capitalism's ongoing effects on young writers convinced they must publish before they're actually ready and it prompted chloe gong to drop a sulky, self-absorbed essay about how we're all really just jealous that we aren't published authors.the tiktok marketing has brainwashed everyone because this book was absolute ass……i do think that the growing urgency people feel to write, publish, and market books from a very young age is self-sabotage. there's no way that a freshman in college is going to be able to thoughtfully tackle a multi-cultural historical fantasy set in a country with an incredibly complex political landscape that can in no way be captured by the watered-down YA equivalent of "communism bad, wealthy factory owners victims 🥺🥺🥺, say no to fighting against exploitation!"—and one that's based on/inspired by one of the most popular plays in the world. chloe gong may well have poured her heart and soul into this book, sought out family for help, and committed to intense historical research. my opinion remains the same. at 19 and even 20, you're not ready to produce good novels, especially in a genre that encourages wishy-washy politics. i wish we were more willing to tell young writers to take their time, to read more, to let their voices and styles develop, to commit to a generative workshop model that allows them to hear criticism without any hurt. but, again, we live in a world dominated by profit, where productivity and physical output are seen as the ultimate beacons of success, even to freshly graduated high school students without the language or the wisdom to tackle gangs, leftist politics, world history, and also do so with craft-specific technique. if you're young, love YA, and you want to read an oversimplified, melodramatic six of crows imitation without any of the found family or romance, you might enjoy this. i—personally—am becoming increasingly disillusioned with the young adult genre's tendency to rely on high-octane concepts with none of the execution or nuance for quick success. don't serve me high-octane concepts if you're not equipped to carry them through with competence. i'm going to be blunt, because i'm tired of being let down by young adult fiction. this is a book that pretends to be complex. it's not (unless you count bumbling from character to character for 400+ pages while trying to follow a baffling monster conflict). it tackles "colonialism" and "white supremacy" in the same way that the cw's riverdale tackles the human condition—which is to say, not well at all. i also absolutely love the way that the novel's politics fall apart the second roma's gang is absolved of their own part in imperial expansion across china: They were vultures, all of them—the British and the French and every other newcomer. Circling above the city and awaiting the carnage so they could gorge themselves until they were full. The Russians had arrived in this country and merged forward, wishing to learn the way of things and do better. These foreigners had sailed in and grinned at the crime. GIRL WHAT???? i know this is historical fantasy, but i didn't expect full-blown revisionism? the book got to its conventionally attractive russian male lead and went, "that's enough anti-colonialism for today i think❤️" you can't make any kind of meaningful commentary on imperial projects or their historical legacies when half of your main ship is an active agent of colonization??? 😭😭😭😭 roma really said i'm not like other foreigners <3 and called it a day. like please have a little backbone!!!!!!!! to say nothing of the way that the book works to demonize any worker attempting to take a stance against individual or collective exploitation. if you're going to be politically lukewarm, i would at least like to see some good prose. instead, i got this: "You're the only one I trust to hold this gang together as a steady steel structure, rather than a grappling hierarchy of whims." this is what i mean when i say, let's encourage young writers to slow down and learn craft before urging them to immortalize their projects for the entire world to see. gong's age really shows in her prose. it's clunky, blundering, and, as a whole, incredibly awkward. she overcompensates for a lack of skill by throwing in thesaurus words at every turn. historical diction is observed by characters one moment and abandoned the next. there's no rhyme or reason to the narration techniques utilized; it's always a question of whose head it's most convenient to occupy at any given moment. say what you will about the head-jumping in six of crows; there, i at least felt that leigh bardugo had a system or happened to be working off of an outline.here, gong throws in tiny, meaningless interludes told through throwaway characters' eyes for no reason other than that she can't figure out how to move the narrative forward without jumping around, tipping her hand, or teasing future "plot twists." i don't understand why YA lovers/writers get so defensive about the criticism the genre has attracted in recent years when books like this are its gold-star representatives.one final note on character writing: juliette cai is an asshole. i mean, to be fair, there isn't a single character in these violent delights who i would comfortably call well-written or even deserving of the word "personality" (roma has none), but juliette is a bit of a special case. she's symbolic of the YA overcompensation that occurs when authors feel that they need to represent strong female leads and don't know how.the poor gang politics is already there. no found family. no affection or tenderness. lots of reliance on offscreen explanation to convince readers that a relationship dynamic is compelling (hint: it is not). the world-building is as lazy as it gets in the genre. and to top it all off, the rich teenage brats who run around putting bullets in random people are absolute nightmares: The waitress blinked. "Miss Cai, it's not proper for you to get your hands dirty—" "Pass it."She passed it. Juliette scrunched it up in her fist. In three quick, violent motions—her hand coming down on the table so hard that it made a sound—the surface was smooth and clear and shiny. Juliette gave the cloth back. "Use your elbows. It's not that hard." miss juliette.....you do not get to use your personal rich girl trauma as an excuse to berate and humiliate waitstaff, working class people, and anyone you deem beneath your "affluent polyglot summer vacation abroad" lifestyle when you spend the vast majority of your days wooing white boys, polishing your guns, and enjoying expensive clothes. like what do you know about hard, underpaid manual labor 🧐 and why do you think you have any right to lecture someone making subpar wages to kiss your feet about it 🤔 it's worse that instances like the one above are not meant to be seen as character flaws. gong intended them to contribute to juliette's air of "female badassery." juliette is not a badass. she's just a classist jerk who badly needs therapy. like........ Juliette shoved her way to the front of the line. When an elderly man near the door tried to push her back, she spat the nastiest curse she could summon in Shanghainese, and he shrank like his life had been sucked from his veins. if i could give this 0 stars, i would. yes, i'm a hater!!!!!!!!! and novels like this one are the reason why!!!!!!!!!!!!
3415006628	I'm dreaming of a good fantasy...Just like the ones I used to know...Without the tryhard writing...And silly love interest fighting...And a plot I can only say is slow...(insert pause for applause, standing ovation, loud WOO's, the whole arena to do the wave, people chanting my name, etc. here)Anyway. Clearly this whole "reading" thing isn't working out, as I continue to get disappointed by my most anticipated reads as if it is my job, so I might try my hand at songwriting."White Christmas" is the best Christmas song, in my opinion, but I think my These Violent Delights version is even better.Instead of a review, this is going to be like one of those "behind the lyrics" things that comes up inexplicably on 1% of songs on Spotify. The rough equivalent of some random 17 year old popstar attempting to explain very basic words they spent very little energy on writing, if any.The same as that in more ways than one.First up.I'm dreaming of a good fantasy...Just like the ones I used to know...This lyric is because I'm getting old. Okay, maybe not OLD old (although I can no longer reasonably say I'm in my early twenties, sob), but old for YA. And when you get old, you think everything was better when you were young, back in the days of a body that functioned and an ability to avoid hangovers and probably took long walks to school, since that comes up a lot for elderly people.In my heart of hearts, I know that YA is better now than it was in 2015, when I was 17. There's more of it, from more diverse authors, on more diverse subjects. But I'm aging out of it, and it would be boring if I were calm and rational about this. Let's be serious: you all saw my low rating of a popular book and knew you were coming to witness me yelling. Next line!Without the tryhard writing...This is not my biggest problem with this book, but it is the most pernicious. I know a lot of people like this style of writing, but to me it feels like Adjective Town, where every noun needs a descriptor and every verb needs a thesaurus and every gathering of frustrated individuals has me in attendance, and I am the loudest.In other words, I found this to be an example of the kind of unnatural attempt at purple prose that YA sometimes indulges in, and that is not my scene.We're trudging along! Next line!And silly love interest fighting...I often believe the world revolves around me, and to be fair, the world does very little to counter this opinion. For example: My two favorite romance tropes are enemies to lovers and fake dating, and those seem to be everywhere fast lately. Anecdotally speaking.But in this case, I'm meh about it.In the original Romeo and Juliet, Romeo and Juliet aren't actually, like, fueling the war between the families. They actually have nothing to do with it. In this retelling, Roma and Juliette are THERE, baby. No one is being more of a cruel, violent asshole than these two.(Also, these names are very silly. Roma. Juliette. Marshall for Mercutio. Benedikt for Benvolio. Tyler for Tybalt. Keep in mind we're in 1920s Shanghai and let me know what you think.)Juliette in particular is just a nightmare - she mistreats the service staff in her employment, she kills people willy-nilly, she's mean all the time. But anyway. Their leading of the gangs that symbolize the Montague and Capulet family not only involves them being extremely cavalier with human life, but also bickering with each other all the time.And not in the cute way. Keep in mind I said bicker, not banter.A classic lose / lose.These characters are just impossible to root for, not only because they are awful to each other and to those around them, and because they are annoying, and because they are having the same useless exchanges constantly, but because this book is morally all over the place.The colonization aspect was well done, but the force the gangs are kind of teaming up to fight against is communism, and I found that connection to be sloppy.I am pro revolution more than I am pro...gang? So when factory workers rose up to fight against inequality, I didn't sympathize at all with our 17 year old extremely wealthy protagonists, the same people who yell at waitresses for not wiping surfaces well enough while they sit and brood and do nothing.The theory isn't the problem, the appropriation of it is. Depicting overworked child laborers as the bad guys is just ridiculous.Last one!And a plot I can only say is slow...From the very beginning the plot of this has felt the same: People sneak around. People see something gruesome. People look for answers. Repeat. The stakes are not rising, the action is not packing, and snooze city has a population of me.Yes, the idea of two gangs (both inexplicably with teenagers in authority) fighting each other in 1920s Shanghai while a monster rages in the background seems like fun, but...it isn't.Which is kind of impressive.That is the end of my song! The only other thing I have to say (and the only nice thing) is that the dialogue was fun.The end.Bottom line: A book I disliked so much it made me switch fake career paths.---------------pre-reviewme when a protagonist kills people: :) me when a protagonist is mean to service workers: :(this book is all over the board, morally speaking.review to come / 1.5 stars---------------currently-reading updatesyes, i barely read YA fantasy anymore.yes, i have a hard time getting into it when i do pick it up.and yes, i am starting this 500 page book at 4 a.m.i live my life on the edge.---------------tbr reviewso this author is a junior in college...this is blatantly against one of my major life policies (pretending that anyone younger than me is not cooler than me)but this book sounds so good i might have to break the rules 😎
4633678023	"I was raised in hatred, Roma. I could never be your lover, only your killer." Before you get too excited, that was practically the only pithy line in the entire book. I thought I was getting an exciting gangster retelling of Romeo and Juliet with some fantasy elements. Instead, the writing almost did me in.In 1920s Shanghai, rival gangs the Scarlets and the White Flowers are engaged in a blood feud. Their young heirs Juliette Cai and Roma Montagov used to be secret lovers, until Roma betrayed Juliette. Now they are sworn enemies. When rumors of a monster reaches their ears, and dead bodies start piling up around the city with their throats torn out, they know they must act. But can they put aside their differences to save their people, or will they lose everything they hold dear?The premise sounds so good, right? And did I mention it's set in Shanghai, the place of my birth and early years, one of my favorite cities in the world to visit? But even the scintillating setting and the story's numerous references to its beloved landmarks and delicious food could not save it.It was such a slog from beginning to end. The writing feels overdone in the way that YA can sometimes come across. The melodramatic and ornate style is meant to impress the reader with how deep it is, but instead I'm just confused. Sure, it sounds good and all, but what does it actually mean?There is so much fluff and unnecessary details packed in everywhere. No character can be introduced without pages of irrelevant background information, like how much they enjoy drawing spheres and what their favorite necklace is. But it's all telling and no showing. So even after all that, I still can't discern their personalities other than that they shoot first and ask questions later, as is typical of gangsters. The pacing is absolutely glacial. The developments happen so slowly that I often forget where I am in the plotline. It doesn't help that the book keeps making big deals out of reveals that I thought were obvious many chapters prior, while still being unclear about key points. (What is the Larkspur?)For a 450-page book, almost nothing happens until the very end. You could conceivable skip hundreds of pages in the middle and miss nothing. In fact, I barely have any memories of the middle chunk of the book.I'm honestly baffled that such an amazing premise could turn into such a dull and onerous execution. There's a good story in there somewhere. It was just smothered to death by the overwrought writing.~~~~~~~~~~~~✧ Connect with me ✧ Instagram ✧
3490868987	↠ 5 starsYou had me at Romeo and Juliet retelling set in 1920's Shanghai. In this wondrous debut from author Chloe Gong, Shakespeare meets a new decade, one with rivaling gangs and a river monster tormenting the citizens. The blood feud between the White Flowers and the Scarlet Gang is one that has transformed the city. Alliances have been drawn and no one can stand the middle ground. Enter the once-lovers, Juliette and Roma, separated by their families and a long ago betrayal. They must set aside their differences when a mysterious illness begins to inflict itself upon both sides.This book is fantastic. Enough said. From the beginning, Chloe Gong entraps you with her vivid descriptions and fast paced plot. The first line could be seen as the start of my love affair with this incredible story. I mean: "In glittering Shanghai, a monster awakens" *screams into the void. I don't know. There's something about a mysterious creature and two unlikely allies drawn together in order to figure it all out that just sits right with me. Besides that, the world seems thoroughly explored and all of its characters brought forth into the roles created for them. As this is the first book in the series there is a lot left desired, not in lack of substance, but a want of more. An understatement would be that I devoured this book, because I finished it all in a few hours and then sat there staring at the wall contemplating my own existence. Perhaps my favorite thing about this was the tension bordering on yearning between Juliette and Roma. I have a soft spot for couples that blur the line between love and hate, even when it's not hate at all. That being said, the side characters really stole the show in this debut. I currently have my thoughts outgoing to Kathleen and Marshall. Protect them please. While there are other books to read, I'm probably going to be talking of nothing but this for quite some time.Trigger warnings: blood, violence, gore, murder, transphobia, gouging, alcohol consumption, parental abuse.
3239410651	I wanted to begin this note with a quip about giving the book 5 stars, but the truth is, if I hadn’t poured all my heart and blood into it, then I wouldn’t have put it forward for publication. And since I have put it forward, then that means I believe in this book with everything I have, and I’m honored to be able to share These Violent Delights with you all. Goodreads is a space for readers, not authors, so I’m only here to drop this note and then skedaddle. If you’d like me to share or read your review, you can tag me on Twitter or Instagram, but otherwise, I won’t be interacting! If you have any questions, you’ll have better luck reaching me on my website, or Twitter.CONTENT WARNINGS: This book contains mentions and descriptions of blood, violence, gore, character deaths, explicit description of gouging self (not of their own volition), murder, weapon use, insects, alcohol consumption, parental abuse.Please note that I’ve included above the more major content warnings, but if there is anything you think should be included that isn’t, do feel free to reach out. The safety of readers is my top priority!I’ll bow out on my final parting words. These Violent Delights is my love letter to Shanghai, to Shakespeare, and to my younger self, who so desperately wanted to find an adventure on the shelves starring someone with a face like hers. This book is also my mission as an English major to take a classic that we so dearly love and revamp it: in a new culture, with queer rep, and as a brutal takedown of colonialism—without losing its core themes about love, and hate, and loyalty. I hope you enjoy.
3669733643	THAT ENDING THOUGH!!!!One of the best YA books of this year. Completely amazing, I love it sm.
3404780577	OwlCrate's December 2020 Box : My Rep Code: MEL10 ❤️Fairyloot's November 2020 Box: My Rep Code: MELANIE5 ❤️✨ Reviews you should check out: Xiran's, Lili's, CW's "Anyone can be the master to a monster should their heart be wicked enough." These Violent Delights is an ownvoices story starring a Chinese heiress who recently moved back to Shanghai and is willing to do anything to prove to her father that she is ready to rule the Scarlet Gang. But in 1920s Shanghai, the city has many foreign occupiers from the British, to the French, to Americans, to Russians, etc (more about colonization later in the review). And the rival gang in the city is the White Flowers who are ruled by the Russians, and as of now the gangs ruthlessly kill each other while trying to assert dominance in their territories, but they might have to work together when a monster comes from the sea and attacks and kills anyone regardless of their hierarchies and districts. Oh, and it’s also a loose Romeo and Juliet retelling.Remarkably interesting set up, true? I was so very intrigued, and I was not disappointed. I loved all the overarching important themes in this book and how this author unapologetically wrote about them. The monster might be a made up thing for this story, but the real monsters are the people who take land and culture while also trying to control every aspect of the people they are stealing from's lives. And those are very much real and still thriving in 2020, and scarier than the scariest of book monsters. "You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me reason to hate you and then you give me reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is this a ploy or your heart reaching for me?" I really loved Juliet and I was always compelled to learn more and more about her and her family. The Romeo in the story is named Roma and he is also the heir to the White Flower throne, hopefully. Both of their fathers are not completely sold on their leadership, which is why they are both trying to prove so much. It is also why they have this common ground (and a common, but bloody, past) with each other. I think most of you will enjoy their dynamic, especially being rival heirs who once were maybe more. And I really enjoyed them dancing around each other, discovering clues, and just having to work together again before the city is completely destroyed. "This place rumbles on Western idealism and Eastern labor…" This book also very much talks about communism and how white people like to still romanticize the political theory. Meanwhile, so many countries have been completely torn apart by it. This book really shows how people will use communism to help them take over PoC’s land and cities in the name of equality when they are just stealing. The monster (and a contagious disease that people need a cure for) in the book very much plays a part in this. I will say too that this book was very unexpectedly gory. If you are a bit squeamish, you might want to take a bit of caution with this one, because the author does not pull back with incredibly detailed descriptions. "They believed themselves the rulers of the world—on stolen land in America, on stolen land in Shanghai. Everywhere they went—entitlement." Okay, let’s talk about colonization. Seeing Juliet feel like a foreigner in her own country? Her feeling like she must be more Americanized for people to hear her and listen to her? Being sent away to America, “forced” to get an education in American, using the name Juliet, dressing more American, speaking English and with a minimal accent at that? Heartbreak, truly heartbreaking. But this is a reality that so many Asians are forced to live even in 2020 (even my biracial white passing self). The world has always tried to tell us that Westernized voices are the ones that get heard, and if you want people to listen to you then you have to at least appear to be a “model minority” from the East. But I don’t even have words for how extra heartbreaking that is in your own country.This book also has some really good queer representation, with a brewing m/m romances between side characters that I think will be very much developed in the next book, but also with a trans girl side character who completely won me over. Obviously, it is ownvoices for the Chinese representation, and one half of the m/m relationship is Korean! "Juliette Cai feared disapproval more than she feared grim on her soul." Overall (and again), I loved the themes of this book and I truly did love Juliet. I just felt like I didn’t love the plot with the actual monster in this book. I also felt like a lot plot points built up and just went nowhere, even though I’m sure they will be talked about in future books. I also didn’t love the romance, because I just didn’t love Roma. I think this book did a lot of talking, and not showing us, things about the characters. And the ending of this book really left me wanting so much more, but not necessarily in a good way. I still recommend this completely for the themes alone, and I think it is a very impressive debut. You can also tell that this story means a lot to the author, and her family and culture, and it is a tale that deserves to be read (and a history you shouldn’t let your Westernized education ignore). This is truly the highest of three stars from me, and I can’t wait to see what comes next!Trigger and Content Warnings: lots of blood depiction, lots of gore, violence, death, murder, loss of a loved one, general plot around a disease that is contagious, talk of drug use and addiction, self-harm and suicide because of the “monster” in the book, colonization, racism (and lots of microaggressions), lots of talk of communism, brief mention of human trafficking and kidnapping, brief mention of loss of a pet, brief transphobia microaggression in the past (regarding choosing a name/identity), and just in general I think this book could be a tough read for you if you experience entomophobia (a fear of insects) so please use caution!Blog | Instagram | Youtube | Ko-fi | Spotify | TwitchThe quotes above were taken from an ARC and are subject to change upon publication. Buddy read with Maëlys! ❤
6040851931	۫ ◟⊱ 🥀 ⊰ 2 stars – no spoilers“don’t you dare,” roma said. “don’t you dare fall apart now, dorogaya.”🏮 the archer, taylor swift i've been the archeri've been the preywho could ever leave me, darling?but who could stay? i'm not going to write a full review for this because i don't write long reviews for books below 3 stars. no hate :)— buddy reading this with peyton, apple and jaz!!
4471239591	2.5 Nie wiem co sądzić. Ostatnie 100 stron ratuje tę książkę, ale jeden wątek w zakończeniu był koszmarny 🫡 SPOJLER ALERT ✨✨✨✨✨Ten wątek to wątek Marshalla. Why on w taką stronę poszedł 😩
3624194783	if i could sum up the story of roma and juliette, it would be this quote by toni morrison: ‘we mistook violence for passion… and thought recklessness was freedom.’ the ruthless gangs, the rekindling of a first love after betrayal, the haunting of a monster and madness, and the dramatic ploys of various nationalities trying to gain control of shanghai, this story delivers on so many fronts. i could most definitely see how this follows the tale of romeo and juliet, but at the same time, it feels soooo different. its the perfect kind of retelling, with the right balance of new and original. my only critique would be the length and pacing. its a bit slow and drawn out (mainly because there are a lot of POVs). i was hoping for something a littler faster paced, but i can understand how the depth of scene setting and history is useful to the story. also, i refuse to believe this a debut because the writing is phenomenal. i am so excited to see how it develops as the series continues!↠ 4 stars
3676658004	Overall: this book was a 2.5-star read for me. It certainly had elements that were interesting but ultimately was lackluster when it came to execution. The science felt...awful...simply awful and neither of the characters felt particularly compelling to read about...I probably won't be continuing this series cause I simply cannot care enough to continue.YouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat @miranda_reads
3630090073	To be clear, this book is 3.5 stars.This book These Violent Delights is an updated version of Romeo & Juliette set in Shanghai in the 1920's. Roma and Juliette are now ex's from warring gang families who must come together to solve a problem.As Chloe Gong's debut novel, she should be proud of her book especially her writing. I enjoyed the lyrical nature in which the author wrote. She is clearly very talented. Further, based on the little synopsis, full disclosure thought that this book would be absolute trash. However, I ended up enjoying it more than I thought that I would.In the future, I am looking forward to reading more from Chloe Gong. There are a few things that I would have liked to see:1) Although I thought that this version of Romeo and Juliette was unique, it smelled a bit of fan fiction. When I think of my favorite novels: The Great Gatsby, Dune, and The Golden Compass, these books were completely unique in their own right. I would love to see how the author pushes herself in her upcoming novels.2) These characters were really hard to root for. They were all gangsters. One of the things that I enjoyed about Romeo and Juliette (and please forgive me I am going in my way back machine so I may not be remembering correctly) they were innocent 14 year old's. They were not portrayed as personally involved in the feud but were innocently swept up. This Roma and Juliette, they seemed bitter, weathered, ruthless. They were not innocent. I will probably regret saying this because this style of writing is way overused, but it might have been better to have flashbacks to the earlier times to really feel the passion between the characters, how innocent they were, how they had these really big ideals of how to make the world better, something that would have made me say, "Hey, I really care if these two characters get killed off." The author that I think does the best job of building likeable characters is Philip Pullman Philip Pullman.3) I really wish I had the audiobook available for this book. Some of the names were not familiar to me. Still not really sure how to pronounce Juliette's last name. 4) This is my opinion and I know that some literary big names will completely disagree with me (Philip Pullman would 100% have your side on this one Ms. Gong), but I was confused by this book and what genre it was supposed to be in. For the original Romeo and Juliette, it was billed as a tragic romance/drama. This version was young adult, romance, drama, thriller, and probably more. As a thriller, the pacing was off. Being an avid thriller reader, I did not feel like the pair was just about to crack the case or uncover something substantial. It always felt like they were a long way off from solving it. As a romance, I had a hard time buying into why exactly Roma and Juliette were into each other (other than they were similarly situated). What did Roma do that caused Juliette to love him and vice versa? Did he help her through a tough time? However, I do know that Mr. Pullman would say that he doesn't like his book being categorized as children's fantasy. So please don't be too hard on yourself, Ms. Gong, or view this as a negative review.Overall, the book was an interesting take on Romeo and Juliette. It was rather page turning. Nicely done, Ms. Gong!2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango
5101338474	“I hate that the blood feud forced my hand, but I did what I had to do and you may think me monstrous for it. The feud keeps taking and hurting and killing and still I couldn’t stop loving you even when I thought I hated you.”You chose me four years ago. Would you choose me still? Would you choose this version of me—these sharp edges and hands far bloodier than yours? it’s not very often i can find a book that i consider to be perfect. reading is subjective to everyone, and everyone has their own standards for perfect. we’re always told perfect is an ideal idea that doesn’t exist, but do we ever listen? i am still in disbelief that this was a debut novel bc of how well done it was. i’ve heard a lot of mixed reviews about this book but i was still hoping to love it and went in with low expectations just in case. and i’m so happy to say it exceeded my expectations tenfold. chloe gong u are a fucking mastermind!!!!this was the perfect book for me at the perfect time. especially after the mess that was acftl, it was just what i needed. everything was thought through and she rlly knew how to handle everything. there was nothing left hanging besides my jaw and i thoroughly enjoyed it. this book gave me the closure i needed while at the same time delivering an ending that had my jaw on the floor. i was enjoying this book in the beginning and i was worried that i wouldn’t like it as much as i continued but the contrary happened. this book got so much better and i am in disbelief at how much i loved it. i don’t even know where to start with this book. there’s so much i have to say about it. i think it’s clear that chloe gong has done her research before writing & i rlly appreciated that. being able to look up actual places in shanghai rlly helped me visualize the setting better. i’ve heard a lot of mixed things about how ppl felt about the politics but i feel like it made me like the book more bc it shows that love and hope can still exist in such a corrupt world. it also adds on a realistic aspect bc politics are not all sunshine and rainbows. in a world where people are constantly tearing others apart and you are forced to take sides, love can flourish much like it did between roma and juliette. hope was both the thing that held them together and broke them apart all over again. i am utterly obsessed and i cannot wait to see where the story continues.the pacing of this book was amazing. i am so glad that the book picked up on the second half. a majority of the first part talked about politics and i rlly started to understand how their world worked and how it affected the characters by the second half. they tried to flourish and become their own person but in the end they came running back bc they cannot truly be free from their responsibilities. they have to worry about others rather than being selfish and choosing each other. the second half also talked more about their past over time and i became even more obsessed. their partnership showed how they never forgot what it was like to be past lovers and how their trust always remains no matter how they tried to mask it. i loved seeing their progress as they’ve grown and see how much their love still shows. god these characters have my heart and i want to give them all the biggest hugs.the plot was rlly doing its job. i was so intrigued and it was so hard to put the book down bc with every chapter i read i kept wanting to know more. i wish some of the chapters weren’t as long as they were bc it rlly put me off reading it sometimes. nonetheless the story and everything was so intriguing. this book explored so many different possibilities and none of my thoughts even came close to what actually happened. i was so immersed with the plot, especially in the second half. there was one reveal on top of another and i was going crazy!! this book gave me time to process everything that happened while setting up for yet another plot twist and it always got me.in the beginning, i thought that it was too obvious to know cause of the madness was the monster. but it became so much more and i’m still in awe with how everything was executed. even if it meant i had to suffer while reading, i thoroughly enjoyed reading everything that played out. the mystery picked up from the start and it rlly pulled me in. it took me awhile to understand how deep roma and juliette’s bond rlly was but i cannot get enough of them now. those letters in the special edition had me squealing and kicking my feet i need more!! i read romeo & juliet last year for my school and i cannot recall much about it. it was very forgettable but this book was something else. it had everything in it and i just know shakespeare cannot top this book.something that rlly got to me was the representation in this book. there’s lgbtq+ representation and the characters are so likeable. i’m obsessed with marshall and benedikt (even though they aren’t even officially together yet) and the way they care for each other has my heart. i was squealing when we got a scene with marshall and benedikt bc they’re genuinely so cute together. marshall was the fun, lovable guy who was serious when it mattered (basically whenever benedikt made stupid decisions) and i was living for it. benedikt pretty much had more of a voice and he was so outspoken. they’re basically another version of roma and juliette and i loved them so much.tyler has and always will get on my nerves. he basically doesn’t know when he should not stick his nose somewhere and it infuriated me. no one pisses me off as much as him. i hate how he got away with everything and rosalind and kathleen could never bc they didn’t have the surname cai. idk how any of these characters put up with him bc if i saw him.. it would’ve been ON SIGHT!! he was also trying to undermine juliette like get a grip! he has such an ego it’s actually crazy. he’s also one of the dumbest characters i’ve ever met but no one seemed to think that besides juliette. she and i are one of the same person i wishspoilers ahead for the rest of this review! Sometimes it was hard for Kathleen to remember that she was still her own person, not just shards of a mirror, reflecting back a thousand different personalities most fitting for the situation. kathleen has my heart forever and always. a lot of ppl think of her as a peace lover, but when it’s important she is willing to put her thoughts aside and help. she is determined, strong, and has been through so much and my heart feels for her. she is always there for her family and i loved that so much. hearing little snippets of what it was like to come out and seeing how her father reacted made me feel so sad for her. and the fact that she took the real kathleen’s name after she died.. i need to know more. i’m so sad she fought so hard to be called celia and it isn’t stick. she is genuinely one of the sweetest characters (along with roma ofc<3) and learning about her bond with rosalind and juliette and little things about their relationship ahh i loved it. It was because of Dimitri that Roma wasn’t allowed to be soft. It was because of Dimitri that Roma had crafted a cold and brutal face that he hated seeing every time he looked into a mirror. roma is actually the sweetest & cutest person ever to exist i’m crying. he always looked out for juliette and continued to love her even though he tried to mask it as hate. this was truly a well done childhood lovers to rivals and lovers all over again. he always knew juliette, even better than she knew herself. he is an absolute sweetheart and i have a soft spot for him. everyone thinks of both roma and juliette as cruel but roma never lived up to it. he always knew what to say to juliette to make her feel better and his love for her was so pure. he was always having to appease juliette and helping her when she tried to lash out and it was hilarious at times. also he loved her so much he chose to kill an innocent life simply bc he couldn’t bring himself to kill her and knew the consequences. the meaning behind what he did actually had my heart breaking a bit. She could hardly tell the difference between the times when she was fighting and the times when she was barely holding herself together, crumbled pieces staggering forward step-by-step. Maybe those two were one and the same.She had always thought of herself as the heir of the Scarlet Gang, but that wasn’t it at all, was it? She was the heir to her father’s version of the Scarlet Gang.The problem with hatred was that when the initial emotion weakened, the responses still remained. The clenched fists and hot veins, the blurred vision and quickened pulse. And in such remains, Juliette was not in control of what they might develop into.Like yearning.How was she any different from the killers that lurked in this city—the ones that she was trying to stop? i genuinely love juliette so much. the depth that her character brought and her struggles were so real. in order to be liked and earn her place as the heir, she had to become someone she wasn’t. along the way she felt like she was losing herself and becoming a monster. she always had to play the part of one and didn’t consider herself to be one until it came to having to make a choice. she was painted out to be a heartless, cold killer but when it mattered she cared. she always did everything with purpose and intent. ppl feared her bc of the way she presented herself and i respected that so much. the way she decided to finally put down the facade and choose roma just like he did years ago.. actual TEARS streamed down my face when they kissed that second time it was perfect. “You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me reason to hate you and then you give me reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is this a ploy or your heart reaching for me?”She had believed him callous, believed him to have performed the greatest possible betrayal when she had offered him love.Instead, the truth was that he had gone against everything he stood for. He had stained his own hands with the lives of dozens of innocents, placed razor blades in his own heart just to keep Juliette alive and safe, far from the threats of his father. He hadn’t used the information he gleaned from his time with her as a tool of power. He had used it as a tool of weakness.“I mourned for months, years outside the gates of the cemetery. Yet I don’t regret choosing you. No matter how cruel you think yourself, your heart beats for your people. That’s why you shot him. That’s why you took the chance. Not because you are merciless. Because you have hope.”Juliette pulled away, but only to look Roma in the eye, her pulse beating its crescendo. He did not flinch. He met her gaze, steady, unwavering.In that moment, all Juliette could think was: Please, please, please.Please don’t break me again. if u cannot tell already i’m in love with these characters. the way roma & juliette started hanging out when they were children bc roma rolled a marble at juliette will ALWAYS get me. this book was so amazing and so much has happened between them but i can’t get enough. the way they dreamed of taking over the gangs and helping to restore shanghai in their own ways is just so sweet. i can talk for hours and hours about their love and i haven’t even finished this series. i loved the way they hoped bc it extended to much more than their love. it was shown through their actions and how they loved the people close to them. juliette was desperate to stop the madness and save the people. roma cared about his sister the most bc someone close to him happened to fall under the madness. they had to hurt each other in order to save the others life is so sad to think about. “Rosalind carried grudges like it was a contest. She was passionate and headstrong and had nerves of steel, but when you looked past her well-chosen, surface-level pretty words, she could also simmer on feelings long past their relevance. i was rlly sad that rosalind wasn’t that much involved in this book. however i understood her not wanting to take part in helping out with the madness after spotting the dragon & with where her family stood in the group. despite being in the close circle, they would not completely be off the hook and be able to be reckless with their life. the way she suddenly lashed out about juliette made me quite sad bc i understood where she was coming from and i also felt for her. i hope that we find out more about her in the next book & she becomes more involved. there was so much unresolved conflict between rosalind and juliette since the beginning and i felt like it was subtle at first but it was still there. they weren’t exactly close since juliette returned and she slowly started to make less of an appearance in the book. chloe gong really knows how to break ur heart while putting it back together again. i’m not even going to lie she had me when marshall died. i actually had my jaw on the floor and i was screaming. i am so happy that he ended up living and the way she “brought him back to life” was fucking genius!! the way he wanted to tell benedikt he was still alive so he wouldn’t have to worry oh my god. i completely forgot about juliette stealing the vial from louren’s when no one was looking. also another thing: juliette and marshall’s bond? it seems so special so i def want to know more about that. the way they seemed to click just like that?? i genuinely think their friendship is amazing.when the reveal came that zhang gutai was the monster causing the madness i felt like it made sense bc he was always gone. but im so glad he wasn’t the monster for 1 reason: his death was way too quick. it would’ve been anticlimactic. and i think chloe gong knew where she was going bc it kept up pace. i also feel bad that he had to die despite him being a communist bc like juliette said: he was innocent. qi ren being the monster was honestly the plot twist of the century. i feel like i should’ve seen paul being the larkspur coming. if this doesn’t show im too trusting idk what does! i felt bad for him in the beginning bc i thought he actually liked juliette but not anymore. the way he claimed to love juliette and proceeded to do terrible things to her.. yea no ur done. his death was well called for! i have mixed feelings about whether or not he’s a dumb character bc on one hand he hung out with juliette AND BROUGHT HER TO HIS HOUSE but also he hid himself well when they were face to face with the “larkspur”. he also led them on a goose chase that was false. i think even though i have mixed feelings ab paul being a dumb character i have to admit he thought things out well. he came up with a vaccine before the madness even started. even though he didn’t expect qi ren to turn into a monster it was still jaw dropping to read about.qi ren’s death was so sad. the way he just accepted it bc he didn’t ask to be the monster.. speechless. he truly deserved better i feel for him and what he went through. OK BUT ALSO WHY THE FUCK WAS THERE A GIGANTIC BUG?? i feel bad for qi ren bc that bug lived inside him while he was the monster. also imagining him turning into a monster one day bc of a bug cracks me up. at least he’s free from the duties of being an assistant and releasing bugs into the ocean this is me trying to lighten the mood She should have thrown him to the Scarlets, let them deal with him.No, she decided. He is mine to deal with. He is mine to destroy.Did he not realize that cutting off ties between them was the only way they could all walk out alive?He does realize, a little voice whispered. He stays for you. He will not walk away from you. Not a second time. He would rather die. Juliette supposed it was her turn to walk away. The lover and the liar, the liar and the lover. They switched those roles between themselves like it was a game. the fact that the first quote was in the first chapter & she rlly did destroy him in the end.. i’m in disbelief. the foreshadowing in this book was crazy. the way juliette was to blame for roma’s mothers death.. i am absolutely speechless. god i cannot imagine how roma felt during that scene. i felt so bad for both of them bc on one hand juliette had to break roma’s heart so he could live and roma had to learn the love of his life was to blame for his mother’s death. i need to know when the pain ends idk how much more i can take. the fact that the book is most likely going to start with roma hating juliette when this book started with juliette hating roma.. i’m so not ready. i am in disbelief with how chloe gong was able to blur the line between life & death. alisa and roma getting infected with the madness was the last thing i expected. however i loved how it showed that the main characters are not invincible (besides juliette ofc). and the fact that there was an explanation for why juliette wasn’t able to die.. i cannot get over how well everything is thought out. this book has outdone itself so well and i am still amazed. i genuinely felt like i was having so many heart attacks at once reading about all these scenes. i was also panicking istg this book gave me whiplash after every plot twist. that ending was criminal. everything about this book was criminal. i need to know more about that ending IT WAS SO VAGUE?? at the same time i feel like i know what’s coming and im not ready. “in the event of my death, release them all” ALL THE BUGS? i cannot think of any other reasonable explanation. and the way the city went up into chaos again? i’m sorry but reading about how the city went back to normal hours after everything went down with the monster heading back to the water and getting killed had me laughing a bit. overall this is an absolutely jaw dropping and stunning debut novel. i genuinely cannot wait to see what her other books bring. pre-review OH MY FUCKING GOD WHAT WAS IN THIS BOOK BC IM LITERALLY OBSESSED!! i need the next book RFN i swear i ate this up ignore how it legit took me 2 months to finish this AND THAT CLIFFHANGER?!?? rtc! 😋 pre-read review i’m reading this book for my eng class and i’m extremely excited, hoping it doesn’t disappoint! 🤞series review! . ˚◞♡ ⃗ *ೃ༄a romajuliette christmas special our violent ends
3649093833	A Romeo and Juliet retelling coupled with a historical screenplay of Shanghai torn by two rival Gangs (Scarlet gang and the White Flower gang) the Communists, and other foreigners fighting for power, These Violent Delights is, without an ounce of doubt, a debut of immense talent. The crux of the story Scarlet Gang is in charge of Shanghai and is the most powerful of all gangs in Shanghai. Juliette Cai , heiress of the Scarlet Gang ruled by the ruthless Lord Cai, has returned from America and is charged with a huge responsibility: to keep the Scarlet Gang in charge of Shanghai.Trying to overthrow the Scarlet Gang is the White Flower Gang - sworn enemies to the Scarlet Gang, whose heir is Roma Montagov, son of the very merciless- Lord Montagov.When people of Shanghai begin ripping out their own throats as a result of a mysterious contagious disease, talk runs around that a monster in the Huangpu river may be the source of all the catastrophes. Unless it is one of the many means and a weapon to take control of Shanghai. Roma and Juliette have no choice but to form a dalliance with each other, just like old times. Only, their past and their family's blood feud don't allow them to trust each other. These Violent Delights is wonderfully imaginative and is rich in provocative social, physical, and emotional commentary, exploring the themes of loyalty, monarchy of sorts, morality, oppression, rebellion, sacrifice *insert the sound of my heart breaking* and most importantly, survival amidst the turmoil of contagion.Each character is quirky and unique in his or her own way and is on a road toward self-discovery. The fact that it is a Romeo-Juliet retelling is only one of this book's many strengths . These Violent Delights offers a vanquishing formula by petrifying, startling, and enticing the readers- ALL AT ONCE. It is packed with violence and action, and characters that are fleshed out to be believable teens toppling in a Shanghai that is filled with uncertainty and doom. Plans go terribly awry and the leads only have an unforgiving Huangpu river, no people to trust but only fellow gangsters, and a huge responsibility on their shoulders, when their parents couldn't care less.One would expect from the descriptions that the book is a story of love, loss, and self-belief. But These Violent Delights , although it may embody Romeo & Juliet has very little or almost nothing to do with romance as it is plot-heavy. It is also most definitely not a tragedy of sorts *HEY, I'M NOT MAKING ANY PROMISES THAT YOU WON'T FEEL SICK TO YOUR STOMACH AT THE END OF IT, MIND YOU* (view spoiler)[ because there's no death towards the end of the story, whew. (hide spoiler)].Despite all the violence that lays stagnant and heavy in the atmosphere, this is a zestful book that starts at a high velocity but slackens in the middle. At times, it may be difficult to catch up to its pace which makes readers fall behind a tad bit. At times the pace is so slow, readers are one step ahead of the discovery that the characters make in the story. However, there is so much emotion brimming in every chapter which spills such poignancy and pathos that I had no choice but to pay attention to every small detail and ram up even the smallest of moments. My mind was a ship sailing between dread and sorrow, and I was so fidgety throughout as if I was in the tale, feeling the weight of rivals' eyes filled with disdain on me and the sense of having to be just as careful as the characters. Great job there, Chloe GongI entered this book with an open mind, with zero expectations and a subzero knowledge about Shanghai in the 1920s. But the narration was so beautifully done that I wasn't even remotely cognitively exhausted.There was a lot of context about colonialism in Shanghai and heavy colonizing influence of the West like the Opium Wars, British concession and the French concession, supremacist battle between the British and French, rise of communism, and so on. Source- History of Shanghai I won't elaborate about the characters because I don't want to make my review super long and taxing to read and also because the book is so plot-intensive that you see very less of the characters to form opinions on them.But Marshall Seo was definitely my favourite character ❤If explicit descriptions of violence, gore, bloodshed, self-mutilation, weapons, and parental abuse trigger you, you should probably refrain from reading this book At the outset, this book is perfect for the lovers of dark and foreboding mystery.
3687503330	[rtc after rereading] Trigger Warnings: violence (pretty gory), abuse, racism, grief, mentions of drug use.Listen, I just came for the 1920’s Shanghai aesthetic. And then I got so much more than that.“This place hums to the tune of debauchery. This city is filthy and deep in the thrall of unending sin, so saturated with the kiss of decadence that the sky threatens to buckle and crush all those living vivaciously beneath it in punishment.”It was gorgeous. There was glitter and grit and a lot of dark alleyways. Julliete’s flapper dress and glittery makeup and gelled hair, plus a pistol at her hip? Utter perfection.I absolutely loved the gangster concept of this book. The whole rivalry and star-crossed lovers thing played out so well, which I really didn’t expect since I kinda hate all romance tropes and yet fall for them every single time. But Romeo and Juliet is literally the original star-crossed lovers romance anyway, so there was a fair excuse.“In a blink: guns upon guns, each arm raised and steady and trigger-happy, ready to pull. This is a scene that no soul bats an eye toward any longer; this is a scene that is more commonplace in heady Shanghai than the smoke of opium wafting from a thick pipe.”However, the execution of the romance fell a little short to me. I came in expecting betrayal and yearning and tension, and most of what I got was...aggressive awkwardness. When Juliette and Roma were together, I kept waiting for there to be that tangled emotion and forbidden lust and I just didn’t get it. I got stutters and cold shoulders and “I don’t know what to do around you” vibes.There were a few gems for the romance, though. A few specific scenes really delivered the ~angst~ that I was looking for.“You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me a reason to hate you and then you give me a reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is this a ploy or your heart reaching for me?”I think most people know the gist of Romeo and Juliette, but this book really just elevated it to another level. The madness aspect really just gave it a more tense, mysterious feel. The hunting the monster and trying to stop the source of the magic just gave this a more tense, rushed feel.Unfortunately, the plot didn’t actually feel that well-paced. It felt slow and dragged in some places, although I might just blame that on the fact that I read about ten pages at a time over the course of four weeks. I was in a slump. So maybe the plot wasn’t actually slow and it was just my dumbass not being able to read properly. This might be the main reason I didn’t enjoy this book as much as I expected: I could barely read it.“The rich and the foreign, they didn’t truly believe it. To them, this madness sweeping the city was nothing except Chinese nonsense—only to affect the doomed poor, only to touch the believers caught in their tradition. They thought their glistening marble could keep out contagion because the contagion was nothing save the hysteria of savages.”The characterization in this book really twisted the whole thing into a new story. I loved how different the characters were, like they’d changed with the times. And the amazing cultural representation just brought it up another level. Excuse me, a proper explanation of the different dialects of Shanghai and the hereditary customs that different races used? Yes. Thank you.Juliette Cai - My dumbass insists on calling her Juliete Cabbage because in Mandarin, "Cài (菜)" translates to "vegetable" or "cabbage". That’s not actually the right character for it, because Juliette’s last name doesn’t have a Mandarin-to-English translation, but that is how my brain perceived it and I couldn’t stop.Juliette was cold and ruthless, and a little too inclined to violence. She was capable with a gun and a knife, and she knew it. She also had a harsh temper and tended to be on the arrogant side. She was definitely a flawed character, and as much as I wanted to be on her side and support her as a badass queen, I couldn’t really get on it. She was badass and strong, and there was absolutely nothing wrong with her being flawed, but I just felt like she could have given more emotion and more real characterization behind her that would have really made me attached.She was, however, my favorite character in the book. I loved her internal conflict and how she couldn’t choose between being the foreign, commanding American girl or the Chinese girl who would inevitably become overlooked. I think it was an amazing way to show how cultural appropriation and hereditary conflict can take a toll on a person - someone who appeared rich and Western automatically received more attention, while someone who appeared Chinese and blended into the crowd was likely to be overlooked or mistreated. It’s extremely accurate from my experience - too many people have been condescending and racist toward me because I look Asian and I have tan skin. I’m so tired of blonde girls getting more respect than me even though I work twice as hard.“Could she never be both? Was she doomed to choose one country or the other? Be an American girl or nothing?”Roma Montagov - Roma didn’t have that much of a personality for me to like. He was okay, I guess? I got the dimension and the character development and I understood him, but I felt like he could have had more depth to him. His main personality trait was trying to understand what the hell was going on around him so he could protect his loved ones. He was a good character and hopefully we get more of him in the next book.“These days, Juliette,” he said, low and warily, “the most dangerous people are the powerful white men who feel as if they have been slighted.”Benedikt and Marshall - gay energy times 1000. Absolute ship. Chaotic bois who have morally-gray jobs and yet manage to be the amazing duo that they are. Their banter and chemistry is exactly the kind of romance I needed and I just -Their personalities and the perspective they added to the plot was amazing, exactly what this book needed. I honestly think the chapters through their POVs became unnecessary at some points, but I don’t regret reading them at all and I love them both to death.Alisa - we didn’t really get a lot of her character, but I liked the quiet stealth that she had and the weight on her shoulders, while still maintaining a childlike honesty that had me intrigued.Rosalind - she was...not my favorite. I didn’t like her that much; in the beginning I thought she would be a great addition to the group but by the middle I was a little done with her. She did some really low things and didn’t seem to actually care about anything other than whatever pertained directly to her.Kathleen - I didn’t actually understand her backstory, which is unfortunate because it added so much to her character. But I liked the role she played and the way she handled things, even though she was a bit bland for a leading character in the book. She could have had more emotional depth, in my opinion.The best part of this book, in my opinion, was how it handled racism. CHLOE GONG, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THE CULTURAL REPRESENTATION. THANK YOU FOR SHOWING US WHAT RACISM AND WHITEWASHING IS.I have been trying to save this part for last because I have too much to say about it.There are so many times that people will make these comments to me about my race without even realizing that they’re making assumptions.“Where were you born?” Hm, have you ever asked a white person this question? No? I wonder why.“Do you use chopsticks?” I can, but traditionally I don’t. Why? Hm, maybe because Indonesia (my parents’ home country) was occupied tyrannized by white people for over three centuries. Oh, it might also be because the USA authorized the killing of thousands of Chinese-Indonesian citizens. I’m sure it’s not because so much of my parents’ homeland was brutalized by white colonization.“Are you from China, Japan, or Korea?” Well you’re obviously from a country that doesn’t recognize more than three countries in Asia.“They believed themselves the rulers of the world—on stolen land in America, on stolen land in Shanghai. Everywhere they went—entitlement. And Juliette was so tired.”White colonization has been exposed. Please give me a rational explanation as to why the French and the English had to erect their own sections of Shanghai? Oh wait, they didn’t need to.They just did. Without considering who they might be oppressing - they just came in and started eradicating any culture that they didn’t agree with, which basically means any culture that wasn’t strictly white and Western. White supremacy be like “you’re not as pale as me, so you’re inferior to me, so now I’m your superior and you have to do whatever we say without regard to your culture and customs”.“She thought it preposterous that her father had to ask permission to run business on land their ancestors had lived and died on from men who had simply docked their boat here and decided they would like to be in charge now.”Please feel free to correct me, since I haven’t taken high school history yet. That’s just the mindset that I’ve gotten used to after being born and raised in America.Speaking of which, here’s how America was FUCKING EXPOSED BY JULIETTTE CAI:“The land of dreams. Where men and women in white hoods roam the streets to murder Black folks. Where written laws prohibit the Chinese from stepping upon its shores. Where immigrant children are separated from immigrant mothers on Ellis Island, never to be seen again.”“Where men and women in white hoods roam the streets to murder Black folks.” That’s pretty accurate. The only thing is now they’re in blue uniforms.“Where written laws prohibit the Chinese from stepping upon its shores.” Also true. Immigration laws were written solely for the purpose of weeding out who was “worthy” to come to America - it used to be a perfectly legal option to come to America as a stowaway or without papers. You know why it isn’t now? Racism.“Where immigrant children are separated from immigrant mothers on Ellis Island, never to be seen again.” Did you know that the words “moron” and “idiot” were created by so-called doctors on Ellis Island, whose jobs were to inspect patients who were either cripples or mentally-ill? And that most of the mentally-ill patients were non-white people who didn’t speak English? And that most of them probably had no illness whatsoever? And that anyone who was labeled a “moron” was then deported? History is great.I was so glad that Chloe Gong addressed these things in her book. I needed that. We need more people who know this stuff. It would have been easy to brush off these topics, since this book takes place in China and all of its characters are Chinese (with other races mixed in, for some cases, but still). It would have been simple to say “well, all of the main things are Chinese, so white racism wouldn’t have been that major”. But that’s not how it works, and the cultural representation that I found in this book was fucking perfection.Overall, These Violent Delights was an amazing retelling with an incredibly inclusive, dark aesthetic. I found it lacking a bit in the romance department and I didn’t enjoy it as much as I could have, but I would absolutely recommend it and I will definitely revisit it if I ever get free time.
3882162025	rtc in a vlog
3500926122	What.Was.That?!?!Seriously. What the hell was that cliffhanger?!?!All that work and then that happens??? omgomgomg-Chloe Gong really knows how to deliver an ending. I just love how she ends the book in the middle of a climax?!?! (She even added the "To be continued" at the end as if knowing that her readers would be begging for more aghhhh and I unknowingly fell into the trap)I could honestly just feel the beginning of despair swallow up the characters and horror dawn on them as they realized that this was not over—but only the beginning of everything. Now you probably have no idea with what I'm talking about unless you've already read the book, and I probably sound like a rambling lunatic, but trust me or maybe don't, once you read this for yourselves......you'll see what I mean. (I shan't be the only one suffering muahahahaa)Set in 1920's Shanghai, eighteen-year-old Juliette Cai has finally returned home after 4 years of residing in America. She's back and ready to reclaim her rightful place as the heir of the Scarlet Gang, but unfortunately, with being gone for 4 years, there will have been many changes within both the gang and city. The French, British, Americans, and Communists have all slowly worked their way up and gained more power in Shanghai in the time that's passed. And to add on to that, a strange madness is spreading in the city like wildfire with the victims clawing at their throats and whispering of sightings of a monster lurking around. Oh yeah, and somehow creepy and disgusting insects are appearing *shudder* it truly is a nightmare come to life.Let's not forget the most important of all—the White Flowers, sworn enemies of the Scarlet Gang. Between the two groups lies centuries of deep hatred and to this day, they remain as is with their territories and killing of one another. But when both gangs deal with losses of their own because of the madness and monster......they may be forced to set aside their grudges and work together. *gasp* (ik, the horror.)Hey, hey, hey, but that's not all Juliette's problems. There's also having to face Roma Montagova heir of the White Flowers—the man who once knew her better than anyone and...her lover. After a heartbreaking betrayal though, all Juliette feels for him is a deep burning hatred . However, when an incident forces Juliette and Roma to band together to figure out the cause of the sickness, hatred is no longer what lies in her mind. Or maybe, that feeling never left at all....😏Juliette was such an amazing female protagonist and I just loved her. Her strength and bloodthirstiness...ahhhhh what's not to love about it? (uh oh, I'm starting to see a trend in what type of characters I'm loving) Even though she didn't enjoy hurting people, she still would, knowing when it was necessary for information or if said victim would be a hindrance left alive. xD and unlike our soft boy here, Juliette would think of shooting as her first option rather than incapacitating them. (not....that that's a good thing of course hehe) It's pretty cool seeing the female MC as the cold and unforgiving one and the male being the opposite (in most cases). "O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?" Yes, the famous line we all know of. Except what's funny is that I actually never read Romeo and Juliet before. I've heard about it and everything, but my English teacher told us that he hated the play and it's stupidity, so he wouldn't make us read it (instead it was "Much Ado About Nothing", which I loved).But I digress. Roma Montagova here is, thankfully, nothing like the Romeo in Shakespeare. Although he is the heir of the White Flowers and must of course get his hands dirty (I mean, he is in a gang), Roma does not have the same ruthlessness as Juliette and actually tries to avoid killing others haha. But it makes sense the two turned out the way they are now, considering the betrayal—and you'll have to read this to find out what that betrayal was hehe.Also, when Roma would call Juliette 'dorogaya' (means 'sweetheart').......it was just so sweet.🥺There are also some side characters that I just loved so much, like Benedikt, Marshall, and Kathleen. And then ones that I absolutely despised....but I won't go into any names. In due time, you shall see who I am talking about.Chloe Gong said that she wrote "These Violent Delights" as a love letter to Shanghai and I can truly see that. I could almost imagine being in Shanghai myself when she'd describe the beauty of parts of the city and hear her love for it. The culture, the people, the languages spoken......just everything in the book was beautiful to learn about.Now you're probably wondering, "If I loved this book so much, why 4 stars?". Well, the downside of this book was that some parts were just a slow at times, so I'd kind of have to push myself to get through it. Also, with the people in the city speaking so many different languages (Chinese, Russian, French, etc), sometimes there wouldn't be a translation of it afterwards in English, so how was I supposed to know what it meant?!?!I mean, based off of what came after, I could guess what the person had said, but I kinda want to know exactly what they're saying (I just went to google translate at that point haha). Some of the sentences were translated later in English by the characters, but then sometimes not....? Maybe, just maybe, I should've paid more attention in French class. whoopsOther than that, this book was beautifully written and AFTER THAT 'TO BE CONTINUED' ENDING I NEED BOOK 2 ASAP.I will be over here hoping that I get an ARC of the 2nd book.🥺 Please, please, please.......P.S. My loyalty will forever lie with the Scarlet Gang🌹Eternally grateful to Simon & Schuster Canada for sending me an ARC in exchange for an honest review!!! <3
3497569891	5 stars. “You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me a reason to hate you and then you give me a reason to love you.” my tumblr reviewSo I made a playlist for this book (perhaps I'll start to make playlists from now on, tbh, lol) If it flops, I'm gonna delete it because yikes.Buckle up, bitches, my review has some spoilers, so, you've been warned.I'm gonna start saying that Romeo and Juliet was the very first book that I've ever read and Romeo was my first fictional character boyfriend... Yes, I was madly, truly, deeply and insanely in love with Romeo Montague (in Spanish for me is Montesco, so, lol) and I cried like a bitch when he died... I was only 11, please understand me. So, there was NO FUCKING WAY IN HELL that I was gonna miss the chance to read this book.Miss Chloe Gong is my age and she's already a bestseller author... I envy you for that, Chloe, trust me. I feel like a failure, lol, jk or not.The fact that Romeo Montagov is Russian made me lost my entire shit. Yes, I'm a big ass fan of Russian culture, in case you're wondering. Why? I have no fucking clue and don't ask me. My mom says it all started when I first watched Disney's Anastasia at the age of 6. When he switched of languages, using Russian, I was drooling and screaming. Again, idk why.I'm gonna make something clear. This book took me a while (I started it on June 27th) because I was on a huge-ass reading slump; it wasn't the book, it was totally me.The writing style of this book is fucking exquisite. I loved the metaphors, the descriptions, tHE WAY EVERYTHING AND EVERYONE IS PORTRAYED, HOLY SHIT!I was really wheezing, laughing and cackling over the "I am Russian, not an alcoholic" at 12:00 a.m, lol.here is the evidence, lmao.I really really really loved Juliette, she's a baddie, even if she's struggling so bad with her emotions. I would thank her if she'd stabbed me, or say sorry for stealing her oxygen.I wished that Roma would've had a little bit of more personality, but he's funny tho. Roma Montagov, please marry me. Now. "You could be a Montagov" What a way to proposte to me, but yes, I do. Please, get on a balcony and call me "dorogaya."Kathleen is ma girl, touch her and you'll die. I'm still debating what's going on with Rosalind.Benedikt, my little angel. I must protect him.I'm taking one moment to yell at you, Marshall fucking Seo. I CRIED FOR YOU, I MOURNED YOU FOR HALF AN HOUR, I EVEN PUT MY BOOK DOWN AND CRIED LIKE A FUCKING BITCH FOR YOU. AND IT TURNED OUT YOU WERE ALIVE THE ENTIRE TIME. I HATE YOU, BUT I LOVE YOU, YOU FUCKING BASTARD.Tyler, I hope Juliette kills you <3Paul had it coming tbh.Well, I loved this book so much. And if you think I'm gonna pick up the second because of the cliffhanger of this one, you're right. I am doing that.Dear Chloe, I'm gonna send you the bill of my therapist so you can start to pay it, because I honestly lost my shit around the chapter 36 (cHAPTER 36 WAS ONLY 6 WORDS, BUT THEY KILLED ME).
3540816566	Additional note: I forgot to highlight this because I only realized it, the reason I love (and perhaps for a lot of other people too) Juliette and Roma so much is because it never felt like Roma was Juliette's knight in shining armor. The romance felt like they were reliant on each other without ever making half of the couple showcase inferiority. They were both strong and vulnerable.Miss Chloe Gong really said let’s put diversity, chemistry, and beautiful writing together and then write a book. ✨ I would make all of you read this if you weren’t all already “Too many kind hearts turn cold everyday.” THE WRITING STYLE. HANDS DOWN. ABSOLUTELY. GORGEOUS. 🌹🤍Her words were like a movie playing in my head.I’m so happy the writing style did not let me down, especially given that it was my most anticipated of 2020.The blurb says everything you need to know, there’s a blood feud and a monster that they are trying to take down. It takes time to build up but it’s not slow paced. The word choices and construction made Shanghai feel so alive which always so integral in historical fiction. Chloe Gong said she read The Diviners before writing this book and it honestly makes a lot of sense. If you like the atmosphere of that series, you get the Shanghai version of that here.I feel like I haven’t been attached to characters in a YA novel as much as this in a while. It’s been a while since I have been as invested in a couple as I am in Roma and Juliette, but at the same time, it wasn't all about the romance. The forbidden romance, enemies-to-lovers, second chance romance, was really sold on me. I could rave entirely about our main MCs but the side characters are also simply (you knew it was coming)... *chef’s kiss*, extremely lovable and I was invested in each one of them.There are definitely trigger warnings for gore, some graphic scenes, and insects for those who are sensitive to those. Since I think that was a reason a lot of people were bothered reading this.Since this is historical fiction, it also revolved on underlying themes about colonialism, specifically in China during the 1920s. And really, how prejudices and interactions happen between of Western and Eastern cultures in general, which was extremely fascinating and important to read about. The disapora rep was very prevalent, especially through Juliette, and delivered in a way I have never read before.But at the end of the day it’s really a fun romance/mystery that packs an impactful message. I did figure out who what was going on but I didn’t expect that cliffhanger to be what it was.I enjoy more dreamy writing, which was it was for the first half but the ending of this changed to a more contemporary tone in a way. It wasn’t my favorite change based on my personal preference but I do know that some readers felt otherwise. That said, certain scenes towards the end were a bit cliche for me that it almost made me rate the book lower. ↣ If you’re a fan of the atmospheric, mysterious, magical but violent tone like that of The Diviners and The Last Magician… you really don’t want to pass this up. And vice versa. ↢This was all the beautiful things I wanted it to be.— 4.5 —⇢ trigger warnings// Alcohol, Blood, Death, Drugs, Explosion, Gore, Grief, Insects, Loss of loved ones, Murder, Parental abuse, Violence⇢ representation: Chinese* main character and cast, Chinese* trans girl main character, Chinese Diaspora, Gay main character, Korean main character, M/M side relationship (side character)---------------In case I haven’t hyped this book up enough, hold me accountable to write another glowing review tomorrow morning 🌹🤍 hopefully I’ve come up with something witty by then---------------(I put it back on my PTBR because seeing 4 books on my currently reading actually stressed me out so I will continue this after I have sobbed over The Dragon Republic and I can devote my attention to it)shhhhh.... it's happening... i'm finally reading my most anticipated book of the year 🥺i'm reading 3 other books right now but who cares---------------12/07/20: Two days ago we were only 5 people in line (I’m 3rd) for this book in my library and now there are 17 people waiting, that’s so wild... we love to see it.---------------HAPPY BOOK BIRTHDAY TO THIS LOVELY 💕 I’m so excited to read you."if you love:sharp girls with knivesdangerous boys who crycities that feel aliveand old stories told anew"YES. YES. YES. AND YESSSSS.---------------UPDATE 7: Chloe Gong said that she took inspiration from The Diviners by Libba Bray... one of my favorite series of all time... and if it’s not obvious how hyped I already am, it just sky rocketed even more 😌---------------UPDATE 6:I'm being so impatient but I NEED my copy NOW T_T all I do is cry about this every day I swear---------------UPDATE 5:OHMYGOD IT'S ON MY LIBBY T_T and I'm 4th in line :3THANK YOU LIBRARIAN GODS <3---------------UPDATE 4:I can't explain if it's the romeo and juliet + gangs retelling with the fantastical elements or the historical setting that's getting me hyped up but I just need this in my life already PLSSSSI don't think I've ever been more hyped up for a single book pre-publication---------------UPDATE 3:Every day that goes by increases the hype that I have built for this for myself---------------UPDATE 2:I literally keep thinking about this book... someone needs to help me because it's not even published yet---------------UPDATE 1:"star crossed exes in 1920s shanghai with family feuds and a ~dash~ of magic""fans of the last magician"i happily welcome you to my tbr
3644301690	Here it is, my love of 2020! I wasn’t just immersed in this book, I was drowned in it. It’s the kind of book you wish you could read for the first time, again and again.This was such a captivating mix of fantasy, romance, horror and mystery (basically all the things I love) packaged into this neat story that I just could not put down. The characters were all so admirable and I loved how the story played out. It wouldn’t be an overstatement to call this work flawless.Waiting for the sequel is gonna be a torture, really! Loved, loved, loved this!!
4584393493	Wyśmienicie się bawiłam, chociaż ma kilka scen, na których przewróciłam oczami.
3345180677	rating: 2 starsit's me, ya girl. the one who keeps giving all her most anticipated books low ratings. i wish i could see what everyone does in this book (at the time that i'm writing this it seems that i'm in the minority) but there were too many issues that i couldn't overlook.— the writingif i took a shot every time there was an info-dump during the first hundred pages or so i'd be dead on page ten. i practically fell asleep. interesting conversations would be broken up by random backstories that felt out of place; chapters would start with character backgrounds that felt unnecessary to the overall plot (like that one that started with someone's backstory about creating a perfect sphere). look, i get that gong wanted to give depth to all her characters, but there comes a time where you need to pick and choose. too much detail overwhelms your reader and makes the story drag.on top of that, there were a lot of languages used in this book. many scenes had lines in french, russian or shanghainese and while that's fine... some weren't translated to english for the reader to understand?? were we just supposed to whip out google translate or just continue reading and act as if we got what was being said?— the plotthere was so much potential. two rival gangs dealing with similar issues of communists and british/french men trying to gain their alliance could have made for an amazing political plot. instead, we got some supernatural monster in a world that supposedly has no magic to begin with. where did this come from? on top of that, many of the scenes felt choppy. a lot of them just didn't feel necessary and felt like they were thrown in for filler to make the book longer than it had to be. other scenes could have been combined, for example, that one scene towards the end of the book where juliette learns something about roma and wishes to confront him but doesn't, only to confront him about it ten pages later. — the worldbuildingyeah there was none. as i'm writing this review i still do not understand the politics of the book (it was never really fleshed out honestly, pushed aside in favour of the supernatural monster). the book thrusts you into the plot immediately. like page one immediately. and while usually i adore this style, it was done in a way that gave you no time to familiarize yourself before important events started happening. so while i was figuring out the politics of the world, i was also figuring out the magic and the characters and their relationships with each other at the same time. yeah that’s a no from me.— the atmosphereor maybe i should say lack thereof. if the synopsis hadn't told me this was set in 1926, i wouldn't have known. there is nothing about this book that feels anything of the sort, other than the communists and british. the book merely felt like it was set in present-day with the exception of them not having phones. because let's be honest here, having characters say "sit your ass down" and "heck" does not feel accurate at all. and don't even get me started on the scene where juliette's inner monologue says something like: "he looked at us as if we had no braincells.”— the characters & (main) romancedefinitely a personal thing but i couldn't connect. juliette didn't feel like a badass, she was childish and whiny. she reminded me too much of a spoiled brat who was used to getting everything she wanted because of her title. her love interest, roma, had nothing going for him other than the fact that he was hot. he had no motivation and did nothing to separate him from being like any other YA love interest. — the cliffhanger(view spoiler)[wait so you're telling me that book two will just have another bug monster running around with juliette and roma trying to save the city? again?? (hide spoiler)]and so, overall though i understand this is a debut, it was unwhelming. perhaps this book is the definition of don't judge a book by its cover, because although its beautiful on the outside, the inside just doesn't compare.
3500955048	"These days, Juliette, the most dangerous people are the powerful white men who feel as if they have been slighted." Rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐❗This review may contain some minor spoilers❗Excuse me while I pick up what is left of my brain and heart. I did not expect to be so thoroughly obliterated by this book, yet here I am. I don't think I will ever be the same again!!Honestly, I loved literally everything about this book. This is quite possibly the most incredible Romeo and Juliet retelling in modern literature. Chloe Gong combined 1920s China, science fiction, and one of Shakespeare's most popular plays in the world, Romeo and Juliette, into a breathtaking, flawless masterpiece. Moreover, it has every single premise that makes any book amazing, enemies-to-lovers-to-enemies-to-lovers (no that's not a typo, by the way), forbidden love, badass gangsters, a mysterious virus driving people crazy and clawing at their throats, and a strange creature lurking in the Huangpu River. Besides, the plot is equally wonderful. It is fast-paced, beautifully written, full of mystery and suspense, and has mind-boggling plot twists, and a devastating ending that I haven't been able to recover from. There are multiple points of view, as well, even from secondary or lower characters, that add to its quality. Also, it has a lot of fascinating historical elements that I always appreciate in books.Furthermore, the characters are as wonderfully written as the rest of the book. They all have such depth that even the bad guys are interesting. However, the best ones are, unsurprisingly, Juliette and Roma. Juliette Cai is a total badass with a secret heart of gold. I love everything about her. She is so intelligent and witty, with that trigger-happy attitude I always love in a fictional female character. She stole my heart just as easily as she has stolen Roma's. I even got myself a couple of fun, new insults from her to use on people, 'stale bread' and 'wet blanket.' I use them all the time without an ounce of remorse. In addition, my new favorite fictional man, Roma Montagov, is as mesmerizing as Juliette. He is just as badass and intelligent, with a heart full of love and kindness he couldn't hide no matter how hard he tried. I may not have gotten any cool insults from him, but he definitely raised my already impossibly high standards for real men. Not that they had any chances before then.Moreover, Roma and Juliette's relationship is so agonizingly beautiful, it's no wonder I loved it so much. (I have a tendency to love things that hurt me.) There is so much keeping them apart, yet their feelings for each other refuse to waver. Even when they are mad at or hurt one another, the love is still there and as strong as ever. I have the strong feminine urge to take them away from everything standing between them and let them live their life together uncomplicated and in love. Not to mention that the tension between them is so thick it is almost tangible and nothing explicit happened. I ignored so many responsibilities just for them and it was all worth it. Additionally, Roma and Juliette aren't the only ones who stole my heart. Marshal and Benedikt are the highlights of this book. They are both so witty, wholesome, utterly loyal to Roma and so obviously in love, it's almost as funny as it is sweet. Marshal, in particular, is such a huge Roma x Juliette shipper that he should be leading the fandom. Benedikt might not be there yet, but I know he will fall for their charm and unrequited love for each other soon enough.✨Bonus Content: Roma's Letters to Juliette✨This content accompanies These Violent Delights Paperback Edition and is accessible to international readers. I should know, I wouldn't have it otherwise. It is also one of the most wonderful, wholesome, and bittersweet content I have ever read. Roma is such an adorable simp, and the words he wrote to Juliette are so beautiful my eyes welled up and I thought my heart would burst out of my chest. I thought I couldn't love him more. I was wrong!
3722334275	“She…hoped. And hope was dangerous. Hope was the most vicious evil of them all, the thing that had managed to thrive in Pandora’s box among misery, and disease, and sadness—and what could endure alongside others with such teeth if it didn’t have ghastly claws of its own?” I loved this book so much more than I was expecting. I've seen a lot of 3 stars reviews for this book right before I read it, so I went into it fairily medium expectations, but somehow this book managed to surpass my expectations completely.We are in the year 1926, in Shanghai. For generations now, there has been a blood feud between the Scarlet Gang and The White Flowers. Scarlet Cai has just returned to Shanghai assuming her role as the hei of the Scarlet Gang once again. Juliette's first love, and also betrayal, is none otehr than the heir of the White Flowers, Roma Montagov. They don't really want to have anything to do with eachother. But when a contagious madness starts circulating on the streets of their city, they must do anything in their power to stop it. Even if that means working together.I didn't really know anything about the original Romeo and Juliet story before reading this and I can't say I know much now either. I have never watched the movie or read the book and thw only things were some small details about it that I've read or read online. And from that, I can tell taht there are a lot of things that the author changed in here, making it quite different from the original story and you can tell that only from reading the sypnopsis. “These days, Juliette,” he said, low and warily, “the most dangerous people are the powerful white men who feel as if they have been slighted.” The historical aspects that we have in here were some of my favourite elements in this book. From the beginning you can see that the author put a lot of thought in how she will connect the history of that time period with this retelling. There were so many things mentioned in the book that actually happened in or were happening at the time when this book is set in. I loved following Juliette and Roma around. They were both really interesting characters and their backstories were so intriguing. I loved seeing the way their paths intertwined in the past and how they come together again and through out the story we are never really sure if they will work the things that happened betweeen out and understanding why they made the choices they did. As much as I loved our two main characters, I was actually more invested Marshall and Benedikt's storylines. They are Roma's friends and part of The White Flowers. Marshall was actually my favourite character in this whole book and I just felt a bit more connected to him and Benedikt than I felt with Roma and Juliette. I loved seeing what their place was into this whole storyline and how they both ineracted with eachother. Some of my favourite scenes in this book were the scenes where they were present. They just brought something to the story, but I'm not sure what it is. And also I'm seeing some possible development in the friendship that they have and I'm just here for it. Please let us have this by the end of the second book, Chloe Gong. In here we also meet a transgender character, Kathleen. I liked how even though this book is set in the 1920s, the author decided to add some queer characters. Out of the books that I've read set in this time period, there are very few who actually had LGBT representation. At first I was a bit confused by Kathleen's backstory, but once I re-read that section and talked with some of my friends about it, I really liked it and felt it was a nice touch on the author's part. I found Kathleen to be interesting character and I loved the dynamics between her and her sister, Rosalind. I loved how we were shown how different they are, the author putting an accent on their personalities, and everyone's actually. There are a lot of different topics present in this book, but I thought it was interesting seeing Juliette struggling with her identity and culture. She was born and raised in China, but she also spent a few years in America. This is something that more people than we actually realize deal with and the author managed to include it seamlessly into the story and Juliette's character arc. “Memories were beastly little creatures, after all—they rose with the faintest whiff of nourishment.” I liked the plot of this story, but there were also times when I was just bored. It takes quite a bit for us to get into the plot and once with got there, I found myself sometimes thinking taht the plot was dragging and some things were not really necessary to the overall plot. This book also combined a lot of genres together; we have fantasy elements that intertwine with historical aspects and, we of course, have a mystery at the center of it all. The author managed to combine all these elements really well, creating an excellent overall story. What was that ending? Oh my god, I cannot believe this book actually ended like this. In the last few chapters I was just so in distress. I coulnd't put the book down. I needed to know how it will end. And that last sentence... I cannot believe Chloe Gong ended the book like this. Now I have to wait months for the sequel. * cries * Can we talk about the fact that the author is still an undergrad? She is so young, yet so talented. She wrote such an amazing story and she is just 23 years old if I remember correctly. I feel like this is something a lot of people forget about when they really shouldn't. I really liked this book and it don't think I have ever read a book quite like this. It's amazing how authors manage to put a twist on classic stories like, in here, Romeo and Juliet. And, overall, this is an amazing story that more people should pick it up. art by: polarts ________________________What was that ending? What happened? Omg the author really did that. Chloe Gong really did that. RTC.
3432316268	This was so disappointing! I was so hyped for this book based off the synopsis but after finishing it I just wish I could get those hours of my life back. Nothing grabbed me; not the characters, not the story, not the romance, and not even the writing itself was anything special to stick around for.The book is told from the perspectives of multiple different characters. We primarily follow Roma and Juliette, but other POV sections from other characters are mixed up in there as well. Unfortunately, these characters are for the most part either incredibly boring or irritating, and are all united by how one-dimensional they are. The one exception is Kathleen, who I found to be the most tolerable character by far.Because Roma is so bland and Juliette is kind of irritating, I wasn't that invested in their romance to begin with. This was not helped by the fact that they have absolutely no chemistry. They kept having these big dramatic moments but they felt so unearned that they bordered on melodrama - they go from zero to a hundred so fast all the time that it felt like I was watching an episode of Riverdale. "In case you haven't noticed, Roma, I'm a weirdo. I don't *fit in*, and I don't want to fit in. Have you ever seen me without this flapper dress on? It's weird."All this would be at least somewhat excusable if the plot was interesting though, right? Yeah, unfortunately that's not great either. The story as a whole is pretty predictable, which is made all the more excruciating by the amount of time it takes the characters to piece the very basic clues together. This book could have been half the length. It's not interesting to read incredibly similar permutations on the theme of "going into a building to find a clue, killing or injuring somebody in the process" over and over again for over half of the book's total page count. With the information we're given to go on I also don't have high hopes for the sequel in this regard.Lastly, one other thing that irked me was the way the characters spoke. When you're writing a historical novel, it's important to get the character voices right so that it doesn't take the reader out of the setting. I found this happened constantly during These Violent Delights because sure, the characters sounded like they were from the 20s... it's just that they were off by about a century. It's your standard YA snark all the way down with little effort to fit the setting or time period. This, combined with the fact that the author doesn't seem to have heard of the "show don't tell" rule, made the book even harder to get through.So yeah, overall, didn't like the book. Not great. Would not recommend.
3790089571	“The stars incline us, they do not bind us.”Buddy read with Em💖⭐⭐⭐⭐ starsThese Violent Delights is a Romeo Juliet retelling. But I tell you it's soo much more than that.Power struggle, inner conflict and forbidden romance or something like thataka the ALMOST perfect book<3I felt something was lacking in this book*shooketh*I will detail it below!PlotJuliette is the heir of the Scarlet gang. Roma is the heir of the White flowers.There was once a time when both were in love. But it's not the same anymore. Scared with betrayal, they will now do anything to take control.But the gangs are not the only superpowers here. The foreigners are aiming to take control of Shangai. Now Roma and Juliette has to protect their city from them while simultaneously fighting against a dark force that has vowed to kill the entire city.Together they have to stop it. But will it work? Or will their anger take advantage of them?WritingWow the writing was absolutely beautifulChloe gong has blown me away“Memories were beastly little creatures, after all—they rose with the faintest whiff of nourishment.”Ugh omg everytime I finish reading I delete the copy from my kindle before I write my review and all my notes go poof*bangs head against wall bcz I'm stupid*Anyways I can tell you that I very much adored the writing of TVD<3 It was magical and that type of suspense can only be built if there is good writing<3WorldOKAY WOW I majorly stan the world here. 1920 Shangai, um sign me up!I think the author's asian roots are the reason why the world is soo good and accurate. She has done her research unlike some *cough**cough*it was soo fun to read and it was my fav part of the book<3CharactersJuliette“Even the land of dreams needs to wake up sometimes.”Why do I love Juliette soo much? Why do I care for her?BECAUSE SHE IS PERFECTSure, she's a little extra and does a lot of drama but she a sweetheart.She is very brave and very clever. You will always hope that she will fight with u and not against u because then u will be dead. She is constantly troubled by her identity, to where she belongs. She was born Chinese by birth but she spent almost her entire life in America. She finds it hard in Shangai because most exclude her for her identityJuliette breathed in and found her lungs to be horribly tight. Could she never be both? Was she doomed to choose one country or the other? Be an American or nothing?Well I don't care if she is American or Chinese because I will ALWAYS love herme wondering why I have soo many book bf and gfRomaWhile Juliette is the definition of Perfection with a capital P, Roma is polar oppositeRoma = BORINGI actually don't care about him. There is nothing about him that stood out me :(AND that was extremely disappointingThe male MC was supposed to make me swoon, but nothing ahh..... I wished at least we could explore more of Roma's Russian roots, but we don't get that either.No opinion about him*melts into the background*Kathleen is another character who is PERFECT. I love her. She is shy and clever and brave<3 Me and Em were fangirling over her the entire time ^_^Roslaind, that sassy queen. She is actually very straightforward. She wont hesitate to punch u if u wrong her heeeeMarshall why is he soo good<3 I loved him and omg he is perfect. He is like the imaginary best friend who listens to all of our grievances while consoling us 😪Benedickt is cute ugh. I honestly have no idea why he hangs out with Roma. Ben is awesome!Basically you should know that All of the side characters and Juliette are sooo much better than Roma......................Romance“You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me a reason to hat you and then you give me a reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is the a ploy or your heart reaching for me?”Juliette you honestly deserve better. Roma is an idiot :(But ig they are kinda cute?I wish there was more focus on Roma an Juliette so as to build the romnce and make us root for the ship. But there wasn't enough, and now I don't ship them HARD.Can Juliette find someone better?Pretty Please?Rosalind mayb?I know it will never happen...But anyways If they both end up together in the next book, I don't have a problem. If the author builds more on it the sequel, then u can see me SHIPPING HARDBUT FOR NOW : *melts into the background again*Final thoughtsSO the ending destroyed me. Im ded, I'm writing this as a ghostI loved the whole story, the concept of that mysterious insect, typical asian parents (i can relate) everything was awesome.UGH I CNAT WAIT TO READ TEH NEXT ONEEEPlaces it lacked *ROMA - the male lead could have been better*The romance would have been better if there was a bit more build up. After all this is a Romeo Juliet retellingThat is all, otherwise perfection. I loved her writing!!!Does it deserve the hype? A BITWill I reccomned it ? YESRe Read? Mayb closer to the sequel's release date!This is my reviewThank you*bows*|Blog|Pintrest|--------------------My rating system:5⭐ - I loved it soo much! New favorite4⭐ - It was really good! But something was missing3⭐ - It was nice..but had more potential2⭐ - I did not like it at all!... It could have been soo much better1⭐ - Nope. Just No. I hate it
3470513243	“The stars incline us, they do not bind us.” I know, I know, I’m super late to the party. But this is a Romeo and Juliet retelling and I hate the death trope. I think it’s easy to put two and two together and understand what I predicted would happen at some point in time in this duology. (That's not a spoiler because I have no idea if it does lol.) However, I’m incredibly glad that I finally picked up this book because it was phenomenal. I’m so invested in these characters now and I can’t wait for Our Violent Ends. ⇢The Plot I’ve never read Romeo and Juliet in its entirety (I got bored) so I can’t say how closely or loosely based on it this book was, but I don’t think it was too similar because there were a lot of fantasy elements, which I really liked. Also, something that sets this book apart from other retellings for me is the sheer amount of time and effort put into researching the different cultures and historical facts, and those definitely weren’t in the original play. I absolutely loved how much we got to see of Chinese culture in the past, and Russian culture too. As for the fantasy parts, I thought they were really well done. You know a book is good when you can feel like you’re inside the story even if it’s not something that exists in real life, and I definitely felt that here. Every time the insects were mentioned I felt like they were crawling on me *cries*The only thing I felt I didn’t love was that we didn’t get flashbacks to the past. A lot of interactions that took place three(?) years earlier between Roma and Juliette were referenced but never explained in detail and maybe this is an unpopular opinion but I like flashbacks because I feel like I can understand the characters more. Not really something that would impact my rating of the book but just a comment! ⇢Juliette and Roma I am obsessed with these two. I think I’ve said those words a billion times over the course of reading this book because I. am. obsessed. Not only with them as a couple, but as their own characters. Once again, I haven’t read Romeo and Juliet, but I am entirely convinced that Romeo and Juliet have nothing on Roma and Juliette. Juliette was such a fun main character and lived up to the expectations I had for her based on all the things I had heard. “I was raised in hatred, Roma. I could never be your lover, only your killer.” I also loved Roma, because I am obsessed with characters who don’t necessarily agree with the rules or expectations they were brought up with. He was also just such a complex character that you want to know more! Obviously, I also loved their romance, but at times I felt like their relationship was progressing suddenly and then going backwards. Not to be repetitive but that’s another reason why I wanted the flashbacks! Their relationship would have felt more natural. “Wasn't playing with her heart once enough? Hadn't he already torn her into two and left her to the wolves once before?” ⇢Other Characters The best books have good side characters, and These Violent Delights is definitely under that category because I adored Benedikt, Marshall and Kathleen. I can’t wait for more of BenMars, and I’m so excited to see more of Kathleen! Also, I hate Tyler. Just wanted to add that in :) “Sometimes it was hard for Kathleen to remember that she was still her own person, not just shards of a mirror, reflecting back a thousand different personalities most fitting for the situation.” . ⋅ ˚̣- : ✧ : – ⭒ ❦ ⭒ – : ✧ : -˚̣⋅ . my carrd ❦
4084170600	I AM IN AWE.THIS WAS GOLD.BRILLIANT, BLOODY GOLD.IDK IF I WILL EVER RECOVER.I SHOULD PROBABLY START TALKING ABOUT THE PLOT OR SOMETHING SHOULDN'T I.ok. here we go:“These Violent Delights, a Romeo and Juliet retelling set in 1920s Shanghai.”ALRIGHT THAT'S IT EXCUSE ME ONE MOMENT.*crawls into a corner and sobs from pure joy*THIS IS SOMETHING I DIDN’T KNOW I NEEDED THANK YOU CHLOE GONG.*sniffs*let’s try this plot again.Juliette Cai and Roma Montagov. Heirs to the two gangs that rule Shanghai: the Scarlets and the White Flowers. These two heirs are bitter rivals, representing the future of the gangs and their eternal blood feud. They are warriors loyal to their families beyond death. They are leaders with the blood of each other’s gangs on their hands. They are each other’s worst enemy. But once, a long time ago, they were lovers.Of course, it’s been four years since then. They’ve both long since buried that weaker, softer part of themselves. Instead, they’ve immersed themselves in being the heirs to the most powerful gangs in China. But the dominance of the Scarlets and the White Flowers is being challenged. Foreigners from Britain, France, and America are moving into China and Shanghai with their tanks and colonization. The Communists are gaining power, rallying workers away from both gangs while the Nationalists are trying to stop such rapid expansion. And in the midst of all this, there are rumors of monsters, and a madness spreading through the streets; a madness that makes you tear your own throat out.Roma and Juliette both realize that if they want the gangs to stay in power, they’ll have to curb their hatred long enough to figure out a solution together. Long enough to fall brutally in love again.WELL THANK YOU CHLOE GONG NOW IM REALLY NOT OK.First off, some of you may be put off by the fact that this is a Romeo and Juliet retelling.HA.This is a Romeo and Juliet retelling in the sense that the characters’ names are similar, the basic premise is similar, and a few famous lines are referenced.but in every way that matters, this story is SPARKLING NEW and my proud Romeo-and-Juliet-hating self is LIVING for it.The writing is GORGEOUS. Someone please tell me how Chloe put words together at the age of literally twenty years so that they created such JAW-DROPPING WORKS OF ART??Queen Chloe has genuine talent omigosh.next, aside from brief povs from key side characters, this book is dual pov. no, no, i don’t think you heard me.IT IS DUAL POVVVVVVi get to see the angst, the bloody yearning, I GET TO SEE THEM FIGHT MONSTERS AND MADNESS AND VILLAINS WHILE DYING TO KISS EACH OTHER.*screams ecstatically into pillow*On a more serious note, I loved how this book tackles the very real issues of colonialism, something many historical fiction works ignore. While such blatant culture/people/country-erasing was completely disgusting just to read about, those topics need to be addressed. I’ll let you all read the book, but thank you Chloe <3Now. Final thing (more of a warning really): if you are terrified of bugs or can't handle an excessive amount of blood, please do NOT read this book. You will thank me later. OK CHARACTERS NOW YAYYYYYThe entire cast of supporting characters were amazing, well-developed and SO FUN TO BE AROUND. The supporting characters didn’t exist to further the MCs lives and they all actually had their own lives *gasp* There were so many wonderful characters I don’t have time to talk about them all, but shoutout to my boy Marshall Seo because he is the ONLY character with a sense of humor in this entire book.(i mean i love all of you but every single one of you was so seeeeriooouuusss *glares aggressively at Tyler*)Juliette Cai.This girl is the definition of a killer girl boss. Put it this way: I have a strong gut feeling her and Jude Duarte would be besties. Juliette is strong and smart and deadly, but she has to deal with her own demons. Her years spent in America as a flapper makes her feel like she’s constantly straddling two worlds: too Chinese for America, too American for China. She never feels like she belongs. Roma Montagov.My boi tries to hide it beneath a cold exterior, but he is really such a cinnamon bun <33And the THINGS he’d do for the family and the woman he loves !!!But Roma’s also facing potentially fatal problems: he's losing his father’s favor as the heir of the White Flowers. He’s too soft; he's not brutal enough, deadly enough, cold-hearted enough. He's not enough to rule half of Shanghai.In Shanghai, that's means you'll be dead within the week.so that was Roma and Juliette separate.BUT ROMAJULLIETTE?? they love to hate each other, but they hate to love each other even more. THE YEARNING? THE DAGGER TO THROAT? THE SECOND CHANCE AT LOVE? THE ENEMIES TO LOVERS? THE DRAMA? THE FORBIDDEN LOVE? THE ACCIDENTAL HAND TOUCHES?IM CRYINNNNNNGI WANT A ROMA. I WANT A GUY WHO'LL BURN A CITY TO KEEP ME SAFE. chloe you will need to pay for my therapy after that masterpiece.Ratings: Star Rating: ★★★★★If This Book Was a Movie Rating: RRecommendations If You Liked This Book:Cruel Prince by Holly BlackSix of Crows by Leigh Bardugo
4945694011	˗ˏˋ ★ ˎˊ˗ 2.5 𝕊𝕥𝕒𝕣𝕤 ℝ𝕠𝕦𝕟𝕕𝕖𝕕 𝔻𝕠𝕨𝕟 ˗ˏˋ ★ ˎˊ˗Going into the book, I was constantly complaining about how draggy everything seemed; reading it was a painful struggle of picking it up and powering through.These Violent Delights begins with a heavy amount of exposition, introducing us to the characters as well as the political, social and economical setting of Gong’s 1920’s Shanghai where the White Flowers and the Scarlet Gang reigned supreme. Local law enforcement left them well enough alone with the city divided into two territorial halves. We are tossed and thrown around the characters and Shanghai as the monster in their midst begins to take lives on both sides: a plague that sends it’s victims into a mad frenzy, literally ripping out their own throats and clawing at their skin. But as the physical monster grows, threatening the life and existence the two gangs are accustomed to, a more sinister monster raises it’s ugly head; a monster of communism and colonialism personified. Along with the monster killing their people, Juliette and Roma are forced to confront the changing political ecosystem of their beloved city, one that threatens to bring about more bloodshed and violence the gangs could never imagine.₊⊹⁀➴ All of this information is crammed into the first twenty percent of the book, making a huge and important chunk of the story one of telling-not-showing exposition, whiny introspection on Juliette and Roma’s part and frankly, poor writing.I was beginning to wonder if the problem was with me as everyone is rating the book highly! The pacing suffered due to information dumping, the writing was informational and emotionless with any sort of tension all but non-existent; it felt like reading a history textbook. A lot of time is spent in Juliette and Roma’s heads, telling us how they felt rather than showing us. And for gang leaders in waiting, they were annoyingly whiny and any angst seemed rather misplaced; their romance uninspired and lacking. ₊⊹⁀➴ This was not a pair of star-crossed lovers, dying to be in each other’s arms; their banter lacked conviction. At this point, the side characters were infinitely more entertaining and colorful. The prose is flowery and pretentious, affecting the pacing . It is clear that the second half of the book was what Gong had intended to write and the first half was merely there to support the material.This is a very loose retelling. It does feature a decades long rivalry between the Scarlet Gang and White Flowers, two star-crossed lovers, a delectable balcony scene, a very intriguing use of the sleeping poison and a cast of characters constantly at each other’s throats. But that’s where the resemblance ends. As Gong explains, her book still holds true to the core themes of Romeo and Juliet: love, hate and loyalty.However, I could not get behind the monster. And despite it being called a monster, it’s existence is more science fiction than fantasy! Although it played a massive role in the book, referring to it as a monster as opposed to a more Chinese-appropriate name also really bothered me because us Chinese also have our own ghosts, ghouls and for lack of better term, monster. A hideous, misshapen mess carrying a plague would have more feasibly been named something else. I also could not remotely understand why there needed to be a monster when there was already a plague; probably to give Juliette and Roma something to chase across Shanghai. It seemed completely unrealistic.It was alright, not a favorite, won't read the others.
4757814090	!!!FOUR STARS!!!!!Here is my review: in acronymsT(the angsty love of a russian broody dude and a hot chinese girl)H(happy ending...psh..we don't believe in that here)E(every story has two sides to tell)S(scary invisible monster making people kill themselves)E(ending is most def a cliffhnager)V(very very violent)I(I'm serious, so much blood and stuff)O(oh my god, the romance is very very slow...the slowest of slow burn)L(lgbtq representation...gay characters and trans rep)E(every character will grab your heart)N(never lett your guard down. Because Gong added twists to every turn)T(the scartlet gang has my heart)D(dude...juliette is the definition of badassness)E(explain why this is young adult..it's so bloody and violent)l(lord have mercy Juliette is so hot)I(I am crying myself to sleep tonight)G(get ready because it turns out one character may be a traitor)H(hahaha you really though they would kiss)T(the end)S(sorta)------------------------Holy. Fucking. Shit.Review to come——————————————————-A fantasy retelling that's NOT beauty and the beast. Well I'll be damned
3652698781	“Memories were beastly little creatures, after all—they rose with the faintest whiff of nourishment.” unpopular opinion alert , dont kill me people. i expected this too blow my mind away but it didnt. iIt was just a like. which is not bad but not super good like i thought it would be so yeah. * little dissapointed noises *These violent delights is the debut novel by Chloe Gong. The story focusses on two gangs that both live and want to rule Shanghai in 1926. We have Juliette Cai who is the heir of the scarlet gang the current ruler of shanghai who wants to do anything to protect her gang. And we have Roma Montagov who is the heir of the other gang in shanghai ; the white flowers. These gangs are enemies of each other. Juliette and Roma once had a romantic forbidden relationship bus trough betrayel this was destroyed. But once the people of both gangs start rippin their own throat out because of a mysterious disease which may be caused by a monster both heirs have to work together again to explore the truth behind these mysterious suicides and the monster. I raded this is a retelling from Romaeo and Juliette which I never read so I don’t really have to say anything about that or if it is done well oops. I felt like this book is definitely really focused on the plot of the book and about the events that are happening and finding out more about this monster and the politics in the world of the two gangs. I really enjoyed the plot and I always love mysterious plots where things happen and we have to find out what these things are with the charracters. I liked the horror that came with it because well Krizzie likes horror and gross details. But I did expect this to be more character and romance focused then it was. At least for me it felt more plot focused. I personally couldn’t really connect to the charracters as I like to have in a story. I feel like they wherent explored in depth enough maybe. I just felt like I needed more of them and more in their depth if that makes sense. I do feel like Juliette is a interesting morally grey ish main character that has more side’s to her. Because I could not connect to the charracters as much as I wanted to I also did not connect to the romance as I wanted too. I also feel like the romance definitely isn’t here much , it felt a little too less for my taste and I did not really feel much with it because there just wasn’t much. I did like the romance as it developed more towards the ending. I did really enjoy the plot twistst in the end of the book and HA Lia warned me and yes there is a cliffhanger in here and I need information , now ?! There is also a hint of a LGTB + rep in this book between Marshall and Benedikt which I am here for. This book also deals with a lot of history of the reality of this time period. There is white colonization in here which was done well and made me think you see how the white culture want to steal shanghai , this country away and make it their own and let the culture and people of the land disappear. Which is disgusting. Overall i thought i would totally love this book and that did not happen. I enjoyed it but it did not blow me away. I enjoyed the plot and i liked the charracters but i didnt felt really connected to them and feel like i need more. Also the romance was less focus in the story , it is more a plot based book. and i also couldnt really connect to the romance as i wanted too because it felt too less for me. Enjoyable book but it didnt blow krizzie away as she expected too.
3676427397	I have heard nothing but rave reviews for this book, so I was definitely excited to pick it up. I was expecting an enticing fantasy with a great romance, but my expectations were too high and I was left disappointed with this one. The first thing that hindered my enjoyment for this one was the fact that it was marketed as a passionate Romeo and Juliet retelling. The romance doesn't really even come into play until over halfway through the book and our two main characters had apparently had a romance and fallen in love four years ago when they were younger teenagers. I didn't really feel any of that connection and felt their romance really lacking throughout the book. I never felt that angst in the characters' POVs and only knew about their history because other characters would talk about it. As a romance reader expecting a romance, I think this one would have been better not marketed as a Romeo and Juliet retelling. Instead, it should have been a fantasy about two feuding gangs in Shanghai. There were some other elements of Romeo and Juliet mixed in more near the end, but I wasn't a fan of direct quotes from the play being used because that just felt awkward and forced. As for the plot, it was very slow. Just like the romance, the plot really didn't pick up until halfway through the book. Only then did our main characters actually decide to go out and try to figure out what this monster and madness that was plaguing the city was. The whole monster idea was cool and gory, but I wasn't really loving where the plot was going. I was more passively reading the book just to see what would happen. I honestly cared more for the side characters and their stories than I did for our two main characters. Overall this one was just lackluster and not my favorite. While it was interesting and I did want to keep reading, I wasn't in love or entirely engaged in the story.
6002279807	4 "The stars incline us, they do not bind us." Stars!🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔Thoughts:Okay okay okay, so I am going to keep this as spoiler free as possible which means you will not be reading a full detailed review, but more of a late night spam text from a friend about how much I love these characters and this story. This is coming from a Shakespeare-hater too because I was never a big fan. I am, however, a massive Chloe Gong fan!Disclaimer: I started with “Foul Lady Fortune” instead of this duology, and I know I am a dummy for that, but I actually love the experience of getting the background to characters that I already knew and loved as well as meeting new ones. So maybe I did it the right way lol.Entering stage right:Juliette “Hello!” she shouted. “I am here! You may bow!” CaiMy girl, J, is a riot. She is loud, blunt, fierce, unforgiving, stubborn, and hilarious. She is our ‘take-charge and action and deal with the consequences later’ type, and it can frustrate you, but you love her nonetheless, and I do, dearly! Entering stage left:Roma “Don’t you forget who I am.” MontagovR, as mysterious and stoic as he is handsome (and secretly kind). I am a sucker for a man like Roma. He is easy for anyone to fall in love with. I saw online that his Taylor Swift assigned song is “my tears ricochet”, and it is so fitting. (Scene): R & J have broken hearts and will proceed to break yours! Buckle in!Entering stage right into my heart:-Benedikt and Marshall (aka B&M, Bene and Mars, Ben & Marshmallow to me): I love these fools with all of me. I want a book for them alone as these two characters are my new hyper-fixation!-Kathleen and Rosalind: I grouped them together because I just am in love with these two sisters. I already felt like I shared a bond with them instantaneously, and it’s beautiful. I am still so intrigued to learn more!(End Scene): I dare you not to fall in love with these characters!What we get:-immaculate 20s vibes-gangs, spies, and madness, pure, madness-a dash of romance with a will-they?-won’t-they?, a sprinkle of second chance romance maybe?? and gorgeous banter and insults between two characters with thick skulls. -mystery that keeps you on your toes-’We both have terrible families’ bonding-betrayal, but not, but then yes but then not (HALP! - iykyk)-Badass women!-Forced proximity and unlikely arrangements-Butterflies in your stomach at so many cute cute cute moments!-Throw-your-book-across-the-room kind of an ending and cliffhanger!What wasn’t my favorite (I hate to add this section but I must):-The “villain(s)” started to get a little too comical instead of sinister or creepy. -Some bits of too much cheesiness for me.Overall, the writing for this book is done so well and lovely! I felt the dirt and grimness and violence. I got chills, stomach flutters, goosebumps, etc. I mean what more can I ask for when reading?! This YA is historical/science/fantasy fiction done right. The references to the original story by Shakespeare was done as more of a nod to then a direct plotline follow, and that gives me so much joy. Sometimes retellings are too on the nose or wayyy off script, and this retelling was handled with care. The way this story is both modern and not has me. I ate up the scenery and setting. This book is honestly the perfect set-up in worldbuilding for what is to come in book two, and I am extremely looking forward to what comes next!P.S. ‘Tis the season for Christmas jams, and here I am throwing Love Story by Taylor Swift into the mix all because of this book! P.P.S. I speak Russian and am not a fan of a lot of all terms of endearment in Russian. Some of them are adorable though, but nothing gets me like when Roma says "dorogaya”. When he says it, I am a pile of goo. P.P.P.S Knowing this was a debut novel has me taken aback because how?! *slow clap to C.G.*Paperback/Hardcover/Audiobook/E-book:E-book (Libby)How did I discover this:I’ve seen it everywhere, and finally got the push to start thanks to my girl, Deems!Pace:MediumPOV: Juilette & RomaQuotes: 🔔⚠*SPOILERS IN THE QUOTES, I REPEAT, SPOILERS!!* 🔔⚠“She hated him so much. She hated that he was right. She hated that he was inciting this reaction in her. And most of all, she hated that she had to hate him, because if she didn’t, the hatred would turn right back on herself and there would be nothing to hate except her own weak will.”“As the fabric settled, she found a familiar figure seated casually on the railing of her balcony, his legs swinging and his body backlit by the glow of the crescent moon. She swallowed hard. “Really?” Juliette demanded through the glass door. “You climbed my house? You couldn’t have simply thrown a few pebbles?” Roma looked down into the gardens below. “You don’t have any pebbles.”“Power is something achievable by few.” A shrug. “Anyone can be the master to a monster should their heart be wicked enough.”“I’m Russian. Not an alcoholic.”“I cannot fathom it,” she breathed. “You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me reason to hate you and then you give me reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is this a ploy or your heart reaching for me?”“She… hoped. And hope was dangerous. Hope was the most vicious evil of them all, the thing that had managed to thrive in Pandora’s box among misery, and disease, and sadness—and what could endure alongside others with such teeth if it didn’t have ghastly claws of its own?”“Did you mourn?” … “I mourned,” Roma said just as softly. “I mourned for months, years outside the gates of the cemetery. Yet I don’t regret choosing you. No matter how cruel you think yourself, your heart beats for your people. That’s why you shot him. That’s why you took the chance. Not because you are merciless. Because you have hope.”“The feud keeps taking and hurting and killing and still I couldn’t stop loving you even when I thought I hated you.”“You are all cursed. Montagovs and Cais alike. There’s a plague on both your damn houses.”Triggers:BUGS (I PUT IT FIRST BECAUSE I GOT THE HEEBIE JEEBIES), Violence, Guns, Death, Blood, Murder, Injury, Self Harm, Racism, Medical Content, Colonisation, Suicide, Alcohol, Grief, Drugs, Transphobia, Xenophobia, War, Pandemic/Epidemic, Grief, Misogyny, Sexism, Classism, Swearing, Physical/Emotional Abuse, etc.🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔🌹💔________________________________4 "The stars incline us, they do not bind us." Stars!Really enjoyed this one so much!! RTC - AND I MEAN IT THIS TIME!
4244942808	I, like the intellectual I am, got emotionally attached to characters in a Romeo and Juliet retelling, and if Our Violent Ends has a violent end, then I will be distraught. ~ 4.5 stars
5042306118	FINALLY A STRONG FEMALE PROTAGONIST AND NOT SOME GIRL WHO THROWS HER "IM SO STUBBORN" STANCE OUT OF THE WINDOW AND SWOONS THE MINUTE THE GUY LOVE INTEREST IS INTRODUCED BECAUSE DAMN ITS WHAT MAKES ME WANT TO SLAP MYSELF IN 90% OF ROMANCE BOOKSThis book definitely felt a little long for the first 20% of the book but who cares.p.s-I know romajuliette is supposed to be like THE SHIP but can we please talk about marshallbenedikt? They are adorable!
4394473144	im sorry but this didn’t live up to the hype. either the build up was too slow or the story’s too bland that im already @ 73% but i still dont get the hype?? the whole monster plot DID NOT entertain me. it was only @ 80% when things get interesting.my favorite parts:- “What would I be if I weren’t a Cai?”Roma had lifted onto his elbow. “You could be a Montagov.” -juliette and kathleen 🥺-roma shooting the dude while hugging juliette HOTNESS EVERDEEN-GASPS roma climbing juliette's house instead of throwing pebbles because they don’t have any pebbles!-“dorogaya” SHUT UPPP-roma and juliette MEETING for the first time and speaking each others native languages [roma voice] BY GOD-legit love how most of them are multilingual/bilingual SO CHREW LINGUISTICS SUPREMACY -THE DIVERSITY OF THE CHARACTERS 💯-JULIETTE MY BADASS QUEEN-you want me and you hate it (romajuliette’s version)-THE sexual tension between benedikt and marshall god bless !?/?/?*?-🌀🌀 ooo you wanna kiss me so bad 🌀🌀 (benmars’ version)----we stan one (1) queen with a resting murder face !! WOMEN! ----OH MY GAWD IM SO EXCITED TO READ THIS!!! ah, yes, another enemies in love trope 😻
5157584410	this book is what happens when you write books based off of tropes just to get people to read your book. this book is enemies to lovers but yet these characters weren’t really enemies were they? this book was also boring and by the time the plot kicked in it was too late to care. the characters are very boring like what was the point of their pov’s if they’d blend together and not have any distinct personalities.
4622005652	2nd Read “Memories were beastly little creatures, after all—they rose with the faintest whiff of nourishment.” I wish I was reading this for the first time again. I love BenMars almost as much as Roma and Juliette. I'm not prepared to reread Our Violent Ends. Help me<><><><><> “The stars incline us, they do not bind us.” Oooooh boooooy. This was a WILD ride. I love the characters. I love the plot. I love the relationships. Everything. So the characters: I loved Roma, he's great. I thought he was going to be ruthless before reading this book but he held a cold facade while he had such a soft heart towards Juliette, and he hated violence 😭Juliette annoyed me at times with her actions and complaining, but I love how cold and ruthless she is, and she is also very smart and loves her family.The side characters were great too: I loved the representation of the cast as well. I love Benedikt and Marshall, and I love Kathleen. I have mixed feelings about Rosalind, but she's important to the plot. Roman and Juliette together are amazing. They have such good chemistry: childhood friends to lovers to enemies to lovers is a great trope full of angst and slowburn and I LIVE for it. I also greatly enjoyed the pacing and action of the plot. Also the setting, it felt like I was being transported to Shanghai in 1926.Overall, I loved this book and I blazed through it (mainly because I've been in the car for the past many hours because we are moving).5 stars “Do you not listen to me when I speak?” he answered shakily, his lip quirking up. “I love you. I have always loved you.” <><><><><>Pre-read: I want to read this book so badly but I had made a promise to myself I would read it on the drive down to where I'm moving.
3655825055	Even the land of dreams needs to wake up sometimes. The hype and the cover brought me to this book, and then, of course, I stayed for the retelling part. Anything even remotely concerning Romeo & Juliet just can't excape my book-dar.Unfortunately for me and for my radar, this wasn't the R&J retelling of my dreams but it was a good read nonetheless. Roma and Juliette, share a past and possible lingering feelings, which is probably not the best thing when you're both heirs to most important rival gangster families in Shanghai. Between bloody fights, monsters, political intrigues and a virus that's filling Shanghai with terror, the Scarlet Gang and the White Flowers, and consequently Roma and Juliet, too, will have to put aside their reciprocal hatred to overcome a bigger enemy and try to save their city and loved ones. I don't know why I can't write a properly articulated review for this book, but I think it's because there are so many points I'd want to touch on and I've got a few gifts, but synthesis isn't one of them when it comes to essays. So yeah, have my thoughts on this book in all their bulleted list-like glory. *tips fedora*things I liked:-setting-the whole 'madness' plot -description of places and clothes -'horror' scenes-beginning and endingjust okay things:-general plot -the retelling aspect -kathleen-action scenes-world building could have done without:-too much political info-dumping-plain characters -writing too repetitive and a little stiffy-romance (felt like there wasn't much chemistry between r&j) -super slow pace
6639673981	༊*·˚✨INFINITE STARS!✨༊*·˚❤️‍🔥“You know me. Running around. Living life. Committing arson.”❤️‍🔥this book is literally one of my most favoritest(yes ik thats not a real word) books in the whole wide world♡♡ i love it so, so, so much, and even after reading it 7 times, it still deserves infinite stars and all the stars in the world♡ it is so amazing<3 ughhh i wish i could read this for the first time again.read #1 - STOP WHAT DID I JUST READ??? I LOVE THIS BOOK!!read #2 - 💗💗read #3 - i can read this over a million times and never get sick of it heheread #4 - needed a good book to read today... picked up my fave :)read #5 - AHHHHHHHHH I LOVE THIS BOOK WITH MY WHOLE HEARTTTTT🩷read #6 - this was my first buddy read with my bestie chev thank you so much for reading this with me! ilysm!💖read #7 - i felt myself falling into a reading slump, so i dropped everything, and picked this up. it did NOT disappoint, consider my mini slump cured!!🎀❤️‍🔥“You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me a reason to hate you and then you give me a reason to love you.❤️‍🔥🌺my thoughts🌺romajulietteromajulietteromajulietteromajulietteromajulietteromajulietteromajulietteromajulietteromajulietteromajuliette❤️‍🔥❤️‍🔥❤️‍🔥❤️‍🔥❤️‍🔥❤️‍🔥plot it is 1926 in shangai.the streets are filled with blood and death and chaos, due to the blood feud between two rival gangs. in the middle of the scarlet gang lies 18 year old juliette cai. she just returned from america and came back to assume her rightful place as the heir and future leader of the scarlets. on the other side lies the white flowers, who's feud with the scarlets has stretched back for generations. and tangled in it all lies juliettes first love, her first betrayal, and her sworn enemy: heir of the white flowers, roma montagov.but when gangsters on both sides show signs of madness and instability and start clawing their throats out, roma and juliette must put their past, guns, and grudges aside and work together, otherwise there will be no people or no city for either of them to rule.lies will be told. death will be embraced. and betrayals will occur, all in this breathtaking debut by chloe gong - These Violent Delights.ˏˋ°•*⁀➷ characters↳✿juliette cai✿ - the literal definition of a girlboss!! her temper, her attitude! the mask she wears to protect those she loves💕 and i could go on forever - she's a fighter, she's kind under her facade, and she's so smart💕 and of course she loves roma, so much that (view spoiler)[ she's fine with him hating her, because she knows if they love, they'll both die (hide spoiler)]. but juliettes character was really something i admired a LOT.↳roma montagov❤️‍🔥 - i love roma so much! i fell in love with him right away, and he's just perfect 😍but he's kind, sweet, intelligent, and he loves juliette so much!!! *epic fangirl moment* but omggg his internal battle throughout the book was so sweet and roma's character was developed beautifully.↳side characters - i adored all the side characters so much!! they were all key to the story and i HAVE to include a little bit about each of them!! kathleen's struggle with finding herself and who she is was so touching. how she keeps trying and helping others and is literally the sweetest but is still trying to find who she is. the expectations that were set for rosalind and all the pressure she feels trying to please everyone was so relatable. and alisa montagov. how she always felt ignored, and left out was also KEY to the story.↳benedikt and marshall - this duo is ICONIC(but omg juliette and marshall??🤭). they both are polar opposites and help balance the other. while benedikt is reserved and cautious, marshall is outgoing and fearless. i can't wait to read more about them in 'our violent ends'!!(view spoiler)[ and i was so furious and heartbroken and broken at the end when marshall 'died'. but chloe gong put the pieces back together because juliette saved him!! (hide spoiler)]❤️‍🔥“This is why my betrayal was so terrible. Because you believed me incapable of hurting you, and yet I did.”❤️‍🔥🌸favorite parts🌸✿ the whole book!✿ marshall😍(ifykyk)✿ romajuliette✿ (view spoiler)[ THE KISS ❤️ (hide spoiler)]❤️‍🔥“The stars incline us, they do not bind us.”❤️‍🔥🎧songs🎶✿ labyrinth✿ love story✿ miss americana and the heartbreak prince❤️‍🔥“You’re fluent in Russian and that’s the best you could come up with?” Roma asked, flabbergasted. “What is a Montague? It sounds Italian.”“There are Italian Communists!”“Not in Shanghai!”❤️‍🔥the ending - the ending of this book was so unexpected. every single time i read it, the plot twist still shocks me, but the cliffhanger at the end?? omggg it makes me want to stop, drop, and pick the next book up ASAP! my reviews for the rest of the secret shangai series!↳our violent ends♡♡↳foul lady fortunebut omg this book deserves all the stars in the world. Chloe Gong if you ever read this, i love this book, and the whole secret shangai series, you and this series hold a very special place in my heart💕this was a beautiful and enchanting novel, and is truly one of my favorite books of all time!! i love it so so so much and i will never ever grow sick of it💕💕
4701686956	《 Edit 》Just bought the sequel, Our Violent Ends, and I'm so exciiited 🥳🥳🤩🤩~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y’all I LOVED this book. Even tho so many others had loved it, even tho I’d read a lot of 5 star reviews, I was still a bit hesitant in case it would disappoint me- but I completely agree with everyone who said it was amazing! It was SO GOOD!! 😩😩❤❤“The stars incline us, they do not bind us.”For those of you who don’t know, These Violent Delights is a Romeo and Juliet retelling- except set in 1920s Shanghai with GANGS. We follow Roma and Juliette, the heirs of two gangs that are each other’s greatest rivals. The gangs rule the city and a blood feud between them runs the streets red. Roma and Juliette were once lovers, but are now mortal enemies. However, when a deadly madness starts killing gangsters on both sides and whispers of a contagion and a monster start, Roma and Juliette will have to work together to save their city from utter ruin.Honestly, just that concept alone is amazing. But you know when you hear an absolutely incredible synopsis, but are so worried that the actual execution won’t be as good? Well, that was my worry for this book, which meant I spent MONTHS putting it off. But now that I’ve read it, I can say that this book exceeded my expectations by far and I am so excited to read the sequel!! 🤩🤩“I was raised in hatred, Roma. I could never be your lover, only your killer.”Starting with the characters! The book does follow multiple POVs, but our two main ones are obviously Roma and Juliette. We also have Marshall and Benedikt, the more primary (is that the right word??) side characters and then obviously the gangsters and some others. I did really like the characters! 😊 They’re not my absolute favourite, but I still enjoyed following their stories and seeing them grow throughout the story. Let’s be real, Juliette can be a bit annoying and petty at times 🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️, but I really liked her ferocity and her determination to save those she loved. She’s also a bit morally grey, which I definitely ~ liked ~ 😏😏🤭🤭 If you know me at all, you know I LOVE morally grey characters- I mean, my fav character is KAZ BREKKER, c’mon now 😉😉😂😂I also liked Roma, he’s still a little morally grey I guess, but a lot less wild than Juliette. Tbh I found him a tiny bit boring at the beginning but he definitely grew on me! 😁 And Marshall and Benedikt- ugh I love them. Their dynamic together is just 🤌🤌 Honestly, this story wouldn’t be the same without them. Next, the writing. I actually LOVE Chloe Gong’s writing style!! 😍😍😩😩 At the beginning, I found it a little hard to get into, but once I got used to it, I was in love. It’s elaborate, but not in an annoying way, and describes everything so WELL. It’s honestly gorgeous. I also loved the atmosphere the writing created- it was so immersive and helped me really picture what 1920s Shanghai would’ve been like. The vibes really were there. Ugh, loved it 🤌🤌But to think this was written by a debut author? In college??? 😱😱😳😳 I can’t believe it The plot. THE PLOT WAS SO GOOD 🤩🤩It was fast-paced enough that I was always interested, slow enough that I got to know the characters well, and had so many different layers. The romance, the mystery and the action was all merged together so well!! And the mystery was AMAZING. I absolutely LOVED that element of the plot- there were so many twists and turns and I was always super excited to see what would happen next. BUT SOME OF THE PLOT TWISTS– 🤯🤯😱😱 I’m still reeling. I NEED BOOK 2 NOWWWWW 😫😫 Lastly, the romance. If I’m being honest, the romance in the first half wasn’t incredible- it just lacked chemistry for me and it felt a bit dull almost 😬😬 Which wasn’t great considering this is a Romeo and Juliet retelling. But after that it got SO GOOD!! 😍😍 I was rooting for them so much and the chemistry was off the charts!! Now I’m so excited to see more development of their relationship in the sequel! “Do you not listen to me when I speak?” he answered shakily, his lip quirking up. “I love you. I have always loved you.”Overall, ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS 🥺🥺❤❤ You should definitely pick this up if you want:✔ Great plot with amazing mystery✔ Lots of action✔ Really well done Romeo and Juliet retelling✔ Atmospheric and interesting setting✔ Great vibes hehe✔ Good enemies-to-lovers✔ Lots of plot twistsI’m sure the sequel’s gonna be amazing!!! ~ BEYOND 5 stars! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This book messed with my emotions, PARTICULARLY in that last part- like, the plot twists??? 😫😫😱😱 I AM NOT OKAY Running off to buy the second book, so rtc!
3808618290	These Violent Delights doesn’t deserve the hype.I decided to read 3 new fantasy YAs, released in 2018 or after (that's when I stopped reading new YA releases) because this genre can be fun to read. Except that I'm now much pickier. This book was easy to read and it didn't take me long to finish, at least. But otherwise, I didn't like much.I will be writing six not so short points explaining why.➊ I feel like I want to shout this, THIS BOOK IS NOT FANTASY. I don't know why it was marketed as such. It's more of historical fiction with some paranormal/sci-fi-ish thing. Basically, it's the same old Shanghai but reimagined through two major gangs. We also have a monster that isn't natural. It's spreading something they call "the madness" and then Juliette was like:Couldn't they find something more creative? Then most of the book is about this madness, our characters trying to stop it. Where's the fantasy I was waiting for? It's only a mediocre PNR at best. So yeah: if you want to read a YA fantasy, ignore this book. If you want to read a historical + a tiny bit of paranormal, think twice before picking up this book.➋ Juliette. First, this is supposed to be a retelling of Romeo and Juliet, couldn't Gong change the names a bit more? Maybe Julie, at least since she removed a letter and changed the other, from Romeo to Roma. Adding "te" to Juliet is NOT creative.Anyways, Juliette certainly got most of the spotlight in this book. I couldn't relate to her character and I had to roll my eyes at how tough she's trying to sound: it was practically Scarlet urban legend: speak to Juliette when she had a plant in her hand and risk the consequences. Not sure how she built up this particular legend since she left Shanghai for several years since she was 15.She was just a spoiled and cruel rich girl. I really wanted to root for her but I couldn't. I didn't hate her, she was just not my type of main character. ➌ Roma. Again, I didn't dislike him. He was just.. there. It's as if he was only in the story to serve Juliette's plot. He was a two-dimensional character at best. Roma was nice but not a strong character. He lacked a presence. Case in point: we barely learned anything about his Russian background other than the general Bolsheviks-related events + people escaping Russia.Me looking for his personality: The secondary characters also didn't mean anything to me and while some were fun, I failed to emphasize with any of the characters in this book.➍ Another reason why I read this book is the romance. One of the most forbidden love stories ever written is the story of Romeo and Juliet. And please, who doesn't like the forbidden romance? Imagine the tension! The chemistry such characters should have!But These Violent Delights offered none. I didn't feel the high stakes. The need for one another but oh we can't! I was very underwhelmed by the romance. It's might be partially because the initial interactions when they were young happened off-page but I still expected something better.A gif inspired by the Office since I started watching it today: On a side note, I liked that the characters were over 18.➎ The stupid decisions. Sure I did like that they were 19 but the decisions they made sometimes were so so so dumb. For example, they took the word of a bad guy on who is a bad guy and did something terrible to the latter without evidence. I honestly didn't expect them to do what they did but oh they didn't hesitate. And before I started looking for a valid explanation, I was like: That's just one example. They took too long to discover stuff and connect the dots on events that were obvious to the reader (I even assumed the characters already know but then they "found out"). It was terrible.Also, we were made wary of a group of people (won't name which) but then the ending came and they didn't do anything. This plotline wasn't well-handled at all.➏ The boredom and predictability. Okay sure, this book wasn't difficult to finish but I also found lots of chapters dull where I only wanted to see some actions. Yet nothing happened. Also, the reason why Roma betrayed Juliette was so so typical. A person who is ignored at first turns out to be this important person. Honestly, these all are signs of inexperience. I think Gong is a good writer, her writing style is solid but the whole structure and development of the book was it through the characters or the events, lacked depth. I loved that we discovered a new city, especially back in time, but other than the history part.. the book itself needed more work. Also, I wonder why barely anyone used Chinese names even between them? According to a simple google search, Chinese only started using English names in the 1970s but I'm obviously not an expert. What confused me however was Juliette's relatives using her English name, the same as Tyler's. They even used English names between them? That was odd.Overall, These Violent Delights wasn't just boring, the characters made some stupid decisions and weren’t particularly smart. I thought Juliette was more cruel than badass. Roma’s part was only to serve her story -or so it felt. They were trying too hard to be mature but it was a cringe sometimes. The romance was a dud too, I’m a huge fan of forbidden romance but this one was lackluster and I failed to feel the true tension of this trope. I also expected fantasy, which was lacking. It’s PNR at best. I might still read Gong's future books because she surely has potential. Please read several reviews on this book before starting it. That's all I can advise.PS: Never request the arc of a sequel or even buy it if you haven't read the first book/not familiar with the author. I have the arc but am not really interested :/
3503852007	These Violent Delights is the perfect title for this book, it is very violent at times, but what a delight it is to read!Shakespeare re-tellings have, in my experience, gone one of two ways and i'm always wary when i start a new one. I needn't have worried with TVD as it feels vibrant and charmingly modern despite being set in the 1920s. 1920's Shanghai is not a time period I had read about before but I was completely enamored with the setting. It felt incredibly glamorous and dangerous in equal measure.The plot is well established, the writing fantastic and the characters well developed. I believe this is Chloe Gong's debut novel which is seriously impressive too. "These Violent Delights" deserves a huge amount of hype and i really hope it gets it!
4096276868	um excuse me what. what the hell was that ending. WHAT IN THE DEVIL'S FRICKETY FUCK WAS THAT JSJASWJEUB slow-paced but totally worth the wait. p.s. here's a tip: never read a romeo & juliette retelling while 'my heart will go on' covers play in the background if you do not wish to end up a sobbing mess especially during a heart-wrenching romantic confession scene when you know how the story ultimately ends. bad bad idea.
3418210268	Full review now on my book blog, The Quiet Pond.-oh................... OH SHITif this isn't the next big YA, then i WILL riot. this book was PHENOMENAL.i was provided an ARC by the author. this does not affect my opinion in any way.
5431293086	—1.75 stars ★ “You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me a reason to hate you and then you give me a reason to love you.” Here I go with writing my very first review in 3 months. I´m so lost and almost don´t even know how to review anymore. I actually read this book 2 months ago so i´ll try to make this review as best as i can.First of all i want to thank Nele for buddy reading this with me and making this experience so much funner, also thank you so much for being so patient with me while I was so slow with reading this. Alright ladies and gentleman give me the microphone cuz i have shit to say. This book has taken 10 years of my life. This took me so so long to finish and one of the reasons is simpely because I couldn't get myself into the story plot. It was so long-winded and the story line was just too slow. Honestly reading this book drained the hell out of me, I hate to say it but this book was just not it for me. I also feel like there are so many unnecessary details given in this book. No character could get on with their story without having the writer packing the pages with so much irrelevant background information. After some time this just tires the reader out. Nobody cares that the characters loves drawing or what their favorite necklace is, it doesn't have anything to do with the story and can easily be left out of it.Just like I already said, the pace this book goes in is unbearably slow. The character and couple development are so unbelievably slow. I can't believe that she made them get back together in the very last chapters. Okay but one positive thing about this authors writing is how she made me feel at some points. This book made me feel so utterly disgusted. I sometimes sat there reading with goosebumps everywhere. This book made me hate insects jheez, just thinking about it makes my skin crawl al over againAlso can somebody pls tell me wtf Larkspur is, i still don´t get it😭 “Even the land of dreams needs to wake up sometimes.” _______Br with Nele, let´s do this! Also don´t get me started on how pretty the cover is. 1920 in Shanghai? lovers to Enemies to lovers? gimmeeeee. I´m actually going in with no expectations at all so i really hope this is going to be good.
3802376190	3,5 ★Lulu said it had to be off my shelf before 2024 and if lulu tells me to do something I do it 🫡 "This is why my betrayal was so terrible. Because you believed me incapable of hurting you, and yet I did." Guys, I have been reading this for 9 months 🧍‍♀️how do you even write a review to a book like that? That’s a whole ass pregnancy right there and this review is the delivery.It was fun, slow, cute, slow, heartbreaking, fun, pain, fun, you guys are stupid, pain, pain, pain, shock, wtf, are you kidding me.I got so angry like a book does NOT have the right to make me so angry even my mom asked me wtf was wrong with me and that SHOWS “Why not?”“Must you ask? I loved you” Anyways you should read it, it’s fun & it has some great plot twists, but it may take you 9 months to finish.Also, I hope you guys did not see my failed attempts of tagging lulu in the last 3 reviews I posted 2 minutes ago- every time I try to tag her my whole review becomes a tag lmao this shit is so embarrassing😔Smut:I don’t remember 🧍‍♀️I only remember kissing
3543309908	THE ENDING OF THIS BOOK!!! I never thought I would enjoy a Romeo and Juliet retelling this much but I cannot help and adore this. Chloe Gong did that huh
6726448723	➳ 4 ☆! spoiler free 🥀“i was raised in hatred, Roma. i could never be your lover, only your killer.” 🎧 -dont blame me + favorite crimeᯓᡣ𐭩 for you, I would cross the linei would waste my timei would lose my mindthey say, "she's gone too far this time"➳ oh wow, that ending lowkey got me. i think im going to give this book a 4 stars. at first, i got that 3 star feeling but something about the last 50 pages did it for me! and i cant wait will the 2nd part 🫶🌹| my thoughtsi think this was a stellar debut novel! chloe gong's writing was beautiful + imaginative. and i really appreciated that. i also loved the plot line + setting. the year is 1926 in shanghai. with rival gangs, romeo + juliet reimagining, with violence, a mystery, and star-crossed fatesmy main issue with this book was the pacing. sometime the writing could get a little too flowery & then the scene would drag out. that's why it took me like a week to read this 😭 (which isn't a bad, it can just be discouraging yk?) BUT i did like the ending (great set up for book 2, btw) and i loved the characters. i have a feeling i'll go on many adventures with them 🫶“don’t you dare,” roma said. “don’t you dare fall apart now, dorogaya.” 🌹| character studyroma + julietteour main characters <3 honestly, i love them so much. both together & independently. juliette: it was so refreshing to have a character like her. I LOVE her persona. shes fierce, strong, but also has some things burdening her. anyway i think shes super smart and i cant wait to see how she is in the next book! roma: i honestly dont know how to describe him 😭 like, i want to say hes a 'golden retriever' but he's definitely not.. yk? but i like him too <3 oh the way i wanna give him a bug aswell, i feel SO bad for him (ie how his dad treats him) but ugh after that ending i NEEd to know what happensside charactersi really loved all our side characters and they 100% added to the story! marshall was definitely the funny one in this friend group and i love him <3 benedikt is def the sensible one. kathleen is a cutie pie and idk how i feel about rosalind. but apparently shes the FMC in the foul lady fortune series soo.. we'll see! 🫶➳" you chose me four years ago. would you choose me still? would you choose this version of me- these sharp edges and hands far bloodier than yours?" pg 363➳"in that moment, all juliette could think was: please, please please. please dont break me again." pg 389🎧 -guilty as sin?ᯓᡣ𐭩 if long suffering proprietyis what they want from methey don't know how you've haunted meso stunninglybottom line - go try this! maybe this'll be ur next favorite read <3 i cant wait to discover more in this universe. filled with tension and longing, it was an interesting read. happy reading guys!! 🥹🫶---------🌹|POST-READ are you kidding me with that ending? im so mad. rtc 💔 update: sike, i forgot to read the epilogue, now im happy 😭⚔️|preview!AHH super excited to start this <3 ive been trying out so many new authors and genres and this has been on my list forever 😭 especially because SO many of my friends on here adore this duology + the spinoff! also - happy AUGUST!!
3404813759	4 ⭐️ “I cannot fathom it…You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me reason to hate you and then you give me reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is this a ploy or your heart reaching for me?“ I’m actually surprised by how much I enjoyed this as I don’t do romance. This is because this book is so much more than just a Romeo and Juliet retelling. It has monsters, politics, gang violence as well as relationships from familial to platonic and romantic. The Scarlets and The White Flowers have a long running blood feud. But when a mysterious disease begins killing people with no kind of explanation. Roma and Juliet must work together to find a cause. But their feelings for each other are very confused. I really enjoyed the back and forth, the difficultly they each had in splitting their loyalties. Also a solid ending so I desperately need book 2! ***************************Ok, I caved. This book has now been ordered 😁
6663267517	#2 stars ! #pre-read29.11.2024˚˖𓍢ִ໋🦢˚ these violent delights by chloe gongbuddy read with the prettiest girls aaiza and asra ! i'm so excited for this ! tbfr i'm only reading this to get to foul lady fortune, but this seems so much fun! 🦢 positive things !- the writing. chloe gongs writing is magical if only this book was as magical as her writing.- the POTENTIAL this could've had - the fact that the story is set in shanghai and talks about the russians and chinese this was so cool.
3397592409	THAT CLIFFHANGER AHHHHH*ARC received in exchange for honest review
3698375669	4/5 “Anyone can be the master to the monster should their heart be wicked enough.” Well! I’m surprised I enjoyed this book as much as I did! I personally wasn’t that intrigued by the synopsis but I picked it up anyway because of the hype. For those who don’t know, this is a Romeo and Juliet retelling set in 1920’s Shanghai and involves gangs. To start off, I want to say that I love Roma. He is amazing. My favourite character by miles (I also love Kathleen as my second favourite, and Benedikt as my 3rd fave). I adored his POV, adored seeing him be protective and caring and loving and heartbroken and ahhhhhh. He was such an amazing character!! And also he for once is a male character that can kill people easily but doesn’t want to and tries to save as many lives and I think that’s a type of character we don’t see enough in books.With no doubt, without him this book would have suffered because he truly carried it in my opinion. “The stars incline us, they do not bind us.” Juliette was a nice character. There was nothing wrong with her, per say, I just found her to sort of be very similar to other YA heroines I’ve read about. She just didn’t have any unique quality (in my opinion) to make her truly stand out as the star of this book. I wish we had gotten less of her POV and more of Roma’s. That being said she was uber smart (even if I guessed nearly everything she was going to do before she did it) and was strong. I did like the bits of sass in her POV and her thoughts seemed accurate for someone in that situation (I mean how many times have I read books where characters think about anything but the looming danger). I loved Kathleen. She was honestly my type of gal. She follows moral principles I agree with and overall was a very well grounded character. I hope we get more of her POV in book 2! And Benedikt! He was such a chill guy and he and Marshall were the best duo. I hope we got more of them for book 2. Also am I the only one who has a feeling Benedikt is in love with Marshall? I don’t think they’re related.... and at the end Marshall seems to also maybe be in love (or care for a lot) with Benedikt. I was eager to see the characters based off the original Shakespeare characters and even though I finished the play itself the same day I read this it was sort of hard. I mean, I somewhat spoiled myself for the identity of the Larkspur because I connected which character a certain character represented and what that character did in the original, and how it played out for them.So therefore I was immediately suspicious of this one character, and the reveal was lacklustre. Also Tyler??? He was such a random character that had like zero development and did the oddest stuff. So honestly his involvement in the end was so random but I guess he’s power hungry so it makes sense. Was it loyalty that created power? Or was loyalty only a symptom, offered when the circumstances were favourable and taken away when the tides were turned? The plot. I must say, I’ve never been that interested in the 1920’s as a time period and I never found the political part/ politics of that time to be that interesting. So I was a little bored when the politics came in for this book because I hoped there would be more searching for a monster, opposed to looking for certain political people who may be involved.The gangs were cool and I liked how Chloe showed how many people acted on instinct of what they’d been taught as opposed to what they morally would do.I myself would probably be a White Flower✨I wanted more gang dynamics and I wished we saw more of it. I hope the next book explores Juliette and Roma’s relationships with their parents and how they feel being heirs to opposing gangs more.The setting didn’t feel like the 1920’s either. The speech and inner thoughts were much like the language today, 100 years later. So when characters sometimes used phrases that are commonly used today, I was unsure if they were used (or even invented) at that time period. It just took me out of the story a little.I also wish it were a bit more atmospheric because I couldn’t always see the setting as Shanghai. “It is never as simple as one truth. Nothing ever is.” Continuing my thoughts on the plot:I felt the beginning was quite slow and boring. The beginning was like a 2.5/5 for me. Once it picked up and Roma and Juliette teamed up and they were starting to put pieces together, it became much more entertaining and enjoyable to read.The writing style was a tad off for me. It was good (and excellent for a debut) but it didn’t click with me personally. The end felt anti-climactic to me and I wished for a better ending before the epilogue. The epilogue unfolded more or less how I guessed it would. *Spoilers* I knew Juliette would fake Marshall’s death with that liquid and I re-read that scene twice to figure out how she did it, and it does make some sense. I just am very sad that Roma must think she betrayed him when that is not the case!! At all!! Also Marshall asking Juliette to please tell Benedikt he was alive and not make him suffer for months in grief broke my heart and when Juliette refused because it was too risky-And when the screaming started again. My oh my. *Spoilers done* “You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me reason to hate you and then you give me reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is this a ploy or your heart reaching for me?” In truth, without such a good romance this book would have been probably 3-3.5 stars. The pining and love and facades and the chemistry!! It was all so on point and I loved all of their interactions. I came for the romance and it did not disappoint! It was well developed and for a enemies to lovers to enemies (but not really) to lovers again plot line, it made sense. The emotions corresponded perfectly, and we got enough of the past to see not only how it all came tumbling down, but how it started in the first place. I am very intrigued into what Chloe will write next as her romance is perfect!The angst of it was so perfectly done and I need Roma to be happy in book 2. Please🥺Overall this was a delightful book and I’m here for the sequel! And if you didn’t know that the title was taken from a Romeo and Juliet quote (one of my favourites in the play) than here it is! ”These violent delights have violent ends,And in their triumph die; like fire and powder,Which, as they kiss, consume: the sweetest honeyIs loathsome in his own deliciousness,And in the taste confounds the appetite:Therefore love moderately: long love doth so;Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.”
3697913965	This book is AWFUL. Like I had to work so hard to get through it and only finished it because once I started, I didn’t want to give up.- The writing? BAD. You can tell the writer is young and inexperienced and I don’t want to be a jerk but goddamn does this feel like a desperate creative writing project chock full of cliches masquerading as some type of deep/meaningful prose.- The characters? Terrible. They are so poorly written and one dimensional that there are no stakes - I didn’t care if any of them lived or died.- The “mystery?” Boring. A plague + a monster in gangster-run Shanghai. The boring characters pursue the boring monster - who cares.- The backstory? I had a hard time following the “feud” and Roma and Juliette’s history. Snippets of history are woven in poorly and don’t lend to a better understanding of the relationship between Roma and Juliette. Again, it’s all very boring with nothing that pulls you in and makes you give a shit.- Misc.? The writer makes random attempts to try and criticize colonialism/America which I’m totally here for but they’re so poorly placed and so “lecture-y” that you’re immediately jerked out of the story. If this author is an English major, I hope at some point someone went over the concept of “show don’t tell” with her. I know there’s buzz around the book but do yourself a favor and skip it.
4369760003	Absurdalnie długo to czytałam, szkoda słów
4439145881	It was an entertaining read. It is the early 1900s in Shanghai. The city is split, with two gangs and two political parties vying for power. Violence was a common occurrence and affiliations were determined merely by where citizens transact even if they did not belong in a gang. To make matters worse, a plague was causing people to claw themselves to death, literarily. The question is, Is it supernatural? Is it a monster? Can a vaccine bring about a cure? Who’s selling the cure in the black market? These were all questions Juliette and Roma, both heirs to the opposing gangs must figure out as gangsters are dying from the plague all over the city. They needed to set aside years of violence and aggression to puzzle out the solution.How do you survive crossing the gang boundaries without the permission of the leaders, aka, their parents, without consequences? I need to find how Juliette and Roma navigated the fragile boundary, in the next book. So far, so good. 3 stars.
3404820614	I had this huge reading slump that last for a year and thankfully, I got back the motivation and also the interest to read again. I have to admit that I’ve never read Romeo and Juliet (moreover, I studied English Lit back in the undergraduate studies lol. I know it’s shocking) but still the plot of the book highly intrigued me. On top of that the cover also looked so gorgeous.Historical fiction has never been my cup of tea. I tried reading a couple of books in this genre and I didn’t enjoy any of those reads. But, it never hinders me from reading one though. Maybe I’ll love some books in this genre one day. Sadly, this book isn’t one of those books. I didn’t enjoy reading it. The main characters were dull. On the contrary, the secondary characters whom I forgot the names (the main character’s friends) were more interesting, alive and also funnier. The pacing of the book was very slow and dragging. Don’t get me wrong I love books that give us lots of informations; but the informations in this book were too much and I expected more actions. I was halfway through the book and there weren’t that many actions scenes. Yes, I did skim reading it because I was bored and wanted to finish reading it; so that I could read another book. Overall, the story was original and fresh. I’ve never read anything like this. However, I still couldn’t enjoy reading it. Maybe it’s because of my own expectations. *sighs*
4645265153	4.5 ⭐️⋆˚✿˖° ❝Here in Shanghai, whoever shoots first has the best chance of surviving.❞ ˚˖✿°⋆In the glittering, fearless setting of 1926 Shanghai, the air is filled with screams of victims and the streets run red with their blood. A monster lurks in the dark, its claws sharp and the fear it revels in sharper. The city is divided. The Scarlet Gang and the White Flowers. The rich and the poor. The ones who fear the monster and those who have puffed up their chests too much to even acknowledge the threat.The only thing they have in common?No one is safe.Rival gangs. Conflicting loyalties. A searing romance. Opposing heirs with a bloody trail of footprints leading into their dark and murky past. A madness sweeping through the streets and squeezing under locked doors and seeping through tightly boarded-up windows. A beautiful and brutal dance of lies and half truths as two enemies reluctantly band together to face an even greater common enemy that threatens to burst the already fragile seams holding their beloved city together.These are the things that make up this breathless tale, and these are the things that made me fall in love with it.These Violent Delights shows its true colors in a subtle way; creeping up on you unnoticed until it devours you, just like the monsters and madness trailing after the characters in this story until they hold their proverbial knives to their throats. Chloe Gong has such raw talent to create this with, sculpting it into the masterpiece I held in my hands. This book has me in the state of such a serious book hangover that I would give an embarrassingly large sum of money just to re-experience reading this for the first time and becoming intimately acquainted with the poignant cast of characters all over again.⋆˚✿˖° ❝The stars incline us, they do not bind us.❞ ˚˖✿°⋆The writing was beautiful and chilling. The mystery vibes were immaculate. The romance was burning and lovely. The plot twists and climax left me gasping for breath. The explicit violence in almost every other page paints with blood the smile on this book’s perfect face and really just tops off the atmosphere, because what is a shimmering and shining city hiding huge holes under the surface if you don’t give us a front row seat to what those holes really are?This book will probably make it into my top ten… heck, top five books of the year and I refuse to shut up about it.**content warnings** lots of violence, minor swearing, and no s*xual content that goes beyond kissing. My main qualms are the gay couple and subtly hinted at trans character, which are representations of things that blatantly go against my beliefs. No hate though, and Jesus loves us all! 😘😘⋆˚✿˖° ❝This is why we shall not love more than we need to. Death will come for everyone in the end—❞ ˚˖✿°⋆⊱✿⊰ pre-review ⊱✿⊰AAAAAAAAAAH. WOOT. WOOOOTTTTTTT.*heavy breathing* full rtc 🥲🥲🥲🥲⊱✿⊰ tbr review ⊱✿⊰I remember when my friend read this like a year ago and I took one look at the cover and asked if it was about Chinese vampires 💀✋
4106890770	Although I enjoyed this book, I definitely wouldn't classify it as a new favorite.✅ THE SETTING AND ATMOSPHERE were seriously so perfect! It felt like I was in Shanghai experiencing this crazy city myself during the 1920s. This was also very political for a YA book because it focused on the clash of imperialism in China, but I loved it because it was based on real history and it was interesting reading from the Chinese perspective❌ THE ROMANCE? Mehhhh, didn't work for me. The romance felt more like starcrossed friends instead of starcrossed lovers - there wasn't enough sexual tension between Juliette and Roma for me to believe that they were once lovers❌THE MONSTER AND MYSTERY behind who was controlling it didn't seem well-paced, in my opinion. The monster started out super OP and as the story went on, the monster didn't gain any new abilities or change its tactics at all... it just kept doing the same thing over and over again. The only thing that changed were clues Juliette and Roma unravelled around who was controlling it. Maybe I'm weird, but I think it's important for the monster/villain to have some sort of growth as well to steadily raise the stakes whereas here the stakes were high from the start✅ I LOVED THE GANGSTERS and how everyone in the community was integrated into the gang in some way. Even though the gangs were obviously violent and ruthless, I liked them because at the same time they felt like a big family🆗 JULIETTE AND ROMA were okay characters, I guess. Juliette was definitely more interesting than Roma and I loved how she was going through a mini identity crisis between being American and Chinese, - it made her feel so much more real. I am also interested to explore the drama and family dynamic between Roma, Dmitri, and Mr. Montagov moreOverall, I enjoyed the plotline and I think this is a really great and age-appropriate Mafia Romance for YA readers, but it was lacking in certain areas for me. I recommend this if you are looking for a YA book with a historical setting and exciting mystery because I think the romance definitely takes a backseat in this one, especially if you’re looking for something steamier (which it’s not)
6665928787	started on: (09.12.24.) ꒰🌹꒱ these violent delights by chloe gong↪ ★★★★★ mesmerized stars↪ reread #1falling in love again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again. ─────────────────── 𝜗𝜚 ───────────────────i. | the plot.----> it is 1926 in shangai.the streets are filled with blood and death and chaos, due to the blood feud between two rival gangs. in the middle of the scarlet gang lies 18 year old juliette cai. she just returned from america and came back to assume her rightful place as the heir and future leader of the scarlets. on the other side lies the white flowers, who's feud with the scarlets has stretched back for generations. and tangled in it all lies juliettes first love, her first betrayal, and her sworn enemy: heir of the white flowers, roma montagov.but when gangsters on both sides show signs of madness and instability and start clawing their throats out, roma and juliette must put their past, guns, and grudges aside and work together, otherwise there will be no people or no city for either of them to rule.lies will be told. death will be embraced. and betrayals will occur, all in this breathtaking debut by chloe gong. ❝ you know me. running around. living life. committing arson❞ ii. | the writing and setting.----> magnificent. alluring. phenomenal. i could not stress this enough. chloe gong, you are an ICON. a QUEEN. you literally deserve a shelf on my goodreads and so much more. the WAY she wrote each and every word to make sure that even the simplest of descriptive paragraphs had your interest at its peak? ugh, unbelievable. i'm still in awe. i want to read each and every one of her books now. but at the same time, i don't, because that means i won't have any other books by her left to read. the setting and entire atmosphere of shanghai? my jaw is on the floor. i'm not even kidding. this woman. the brain in her head. i would do ANYTHING to get to read everything she writes. be it a random story or an essay. heck, i'd even read her to-do list. i have no words left to encapsulate my admiration for this author and everything she does. it's truly unlike any other. chloe gong is irreplaceable. ❝ they say shanghai stands tall like an emperor’s ugly daughter, its streets sprawling in a manner that only the limbs of a snarling princess could manage. it was not born this way. it used to be beautiful. they used to croon over it, examining the lines of its body and humming beneath their breath, nodding and deciding that it was well suited for children. then this city mutilated itself with a wide, wide grin. it dragged a knife down its cheek and took the blade to its chest and now it worries not for finding suitors, but merely for running wild, drunk on the invulnerability of inherited power, well suited only for profit and feasting, dancing and whoring. now it may be ugly, but it is glorious.❞ iii. | an in-depth character study.----> THESE CHARACTERS NOW HAVE A RESERVED PENTHOUSE IN MY HEART AND NOBODY CAN EVER TAKE THAT HOME AWAY FROM THEM. imagine a heart. a human one, you idiot, not the shape. now imagine it being ten times bigger than it is. now imagine that same gigantic heart divided into three sectors: penthouses, duplexes, and luxury apartments. the penthouses are on #1, the duplexes on #2 and the luxury apartments on #3, ranked from most favorite to a little less favorite. now imagine the penthouse sector of this heart to be divided into ten penthouses. as of now, only four of those are inhabited (can you guess by whom?) now, on the eleventh of december, two-thousand-and-twenty-four, a grand welcoming ceremony is taking place. please welcome, the phenomenal characters of these violent delights into the heart!! they have been alotted a penthouse on the highest level, alongside my two other all-time favorites. and listen, these penthouses aren't like the ones you see in this world. no, no, no. they're as big as a house, to be able to fit at least ten characters. i mean, we need to have enough space to accomodate all the characters of my favorite books, don't we? the grand welcoming ceremony has come to an end, and our characters are making themselves at home in their grandeur penthouse. let us quickly dive in to a character study of these esteemed individuals !!juliette cai 🌹 THIS GIRL. this girl, this girl, this girl. she is everything to me. she literally belongs up in the ranks with epic female leads like jude duarte. dare i say, she might be even better than her? the literal definition of female power and leadership. the way she handles every hurdle thrown her way is truly admirable. but behind her cold facade, she possesses a fierce protectiveness for those she loves. she's smart, intelligent, and literally every other synonym you could find of this word. her love for roma>>> ugh i'm DYING. juliette cai, you have made it on my top female leads list, congrats !! (ilysm omg)[um so there would usually be a quote here but im saving those for the quote section]roma montagov 🌹 THIS GUY. this guy, this guy, this guy. screaming, crying, throwing up. he's everything juliette needs. right off the bat, i adored his character. i always knew that beneath his poker face, he has such a sweet and gentle heart!! the way he loves juliette>>> ohmygosh being in his pov was pure bliss because his internal battle? extraordinary. his character was developed in such a generous way, and i really loved being there along the way to see it all happen. GIVE ME MORE OF HIS CHARACTER PLSSS the side characters 🌹 kathleen, rosalind, benedikt, marshall and alisa!! literally love each and every one of them. they are all equally as important to the story as juliette and roma are, so of course i had to include something about them!! oh, kathleen, i really admire her character, fierceness and what she's gone through. such a loyal person; she'd do anything for juliette, lest she just ask for it. the expectations set for rosalind are INTENSE, and her character is a little annoying in this book, but i'm sure she has her reasons. she's always trying to please everybody, always trying to fit in - that hurt so much to read about. alisa montagov is the cutest !! she deserves more page-time. BENEDIKT & MARSHALL, PEOPLE !! this duo. they're like polar opposites, but still get along so well? their friendship and bond is like no other, and i can't wait to read more about them in "our violent ends" !! ❝ memories were beastly little creatures, after all—they rose with the faintest whiff of nourishment.❞ iv. | romajuliette.----> i did not know theirs was a second-chance story, but ohmygosh it was SO so beautiful to see them reconnect and understand what went wrong. the way they both fear for each other? i'm crying. i loved the little glimpses we got of their young selves interacting, and of course, their present interactions as well! their care for each other is so deep and goes far beyond words themselves. WHEN HE CALLS HER DOROGAYA>>>>>>> i'm so scared for "our violent ends" because of the title itself and because this is a romeo & juliet retelling, and we all know what happens in that play. i cannot express my adoration for these two in mere words, so i'll end the paragraph here. but please know, these two are unbeatable. #romajuliette4life ❝ they used to be unstoppable. when they were together, they never had an ounce of fear, not when they were hiding at the back of a noisy club playing cards, nor when they made it their mission to sneak into every private park in shanghai, a bottle of whatever juliette had stolen from the liquor cabinet tucked underneath roma’s arm, giggling like a pair of idiots.❞ v. | my final thoughts.----> get me every synonym of the words magnificent, phenomenal, unbeatable, unique, perfect, extraordinary and more. oxford, i'm gonna have to bribe you with everything i have because i BEG you for more words to be created that can describe this book. what i'm thinking: if chloe gong's debut is this good, how amazing will her other books be? all in all, PLEASE READ THIS. CHLOE GONG, I'M YOUR HUGE FAN. PLEASE SIGN MY T-SHIRT. I LOVE YOU. ❝ even the land of dreams needs to wake up sometimes.❞ vi. | hold up.----> there is NO way i'm letting this review end HERE. we still have a bunch of quotes to get through, because how could i not include them? they're unlike any others i've ever read and they deserve all the tribute they can get !! ❝ you destroy me and then you kiss me. you give me a reason to hat you and then you give me a reason to love you. is this a lie or the truth? is the a ploy or your heart reaching for me?❞ -> i died dead. the pain in my heart ugh ❝ the stars incline us, they do not bind us.❞ -> i love this sm. ❝ she…hoped. and hope was dangerous. hope was the most vicious evil of them all, the thing that had managed to thrive in pandora’s box among misery, and disease, and sadness—and what could endure alongside others with such teeth if it didn’t have ghastly claws of its own?❞ -> chloe gong, i love your writing so much. ❝ this is why my betrayal was so terrible. because you believed me incapable of hurting you, and yet i did❞ -> oh my gosh, why did this hit so hard? ❝ 'you’re fluent in russian and that’s the best you could come up with?' roma asked, flabbergasted. 'what is a montague? it sounds italian.''there are italian communists!''not in shanghai!'❞ -> STOP i love their dynamic sm ❝ 'these days, juliette,' he said, low and warily, 'the most dangerous people are the powerful white men who feel as if they have been slighted.'❞ -> the plot in this book is literally SO good. ❝ 'astra inclinant,' he would whisper into the wind, so heartachingly sincere even when quoting in latin, 'sed non obligant.'❞ -> oh gosh their previous interactions were so wholesome 🥺 ❝ wasn't playing with her heart once enough? hadn't he already torn her into two and left her to the wolves once before?❞ -> PAINNNNNNN AHHH ❝ 'don’t you dare,' roma said. 'don’t you dare fall apart now, dorogaya.'❞ -> i'm crying. when he calls her dorogaya>>> ❝ that is what this city is. the party at the end of the world.❞ -> i love this quote (i love every word in this book) ❝ too many kind hearts turn cold every day.❞ -> that is so true, even in accordance to the real world ❝ the land of dreams. where men and women in white hoods roam the streets to murder black folks. where written laws prohibit the chinese from stepping upon its shores. where immigrant children are separated from immigrant mothers on ellis island, never to be seen again.❞ -> this is the brutal and harsh reality of this world. things like this and similar to this happen every day to people all around us and it's so heartbreaking to know that people go through this stuff on a daily basis. ❝ sometimes it was hard for kathleen to remember that she was still her own person, not just shards of a mirror, reflecting back a thousand different personalities most fitting for the situation.❞ -> why is this so relatable ohmygosh ❝ i was raised in hatred, roma. i could never be your lover, only your killer❞ -> unbearable pain was felt while reading this line. you are currently speaking to almas's ghost. please contact her secretary for further proceedings.uhm ... i should stop with the quotes now, shouldn't i? i WISH i could copy paste every other line because this book is THAT good. please please please please please please PLEASE read this. let me heal a little bit from this and then i'll get to the second book! also...last announcement !! i thought this book was just 5 stars for me, but now that i've thought more about this? it's a six star. 6 shining stars in the murky skies of shanghai.side note: thank u SO much to all my friends who enforced my reading of this book !! special shoutouts to rose, niyya, yusra, ash, shania, sara, hanna and saisha! ilygsm 💗xxalmas ─────────────────── 𝜗𝜚 ───────────────────pre-review.this is a masterpiece. i want the next book NOW but i have to write the review for this one first so rtc by tomorrow !! oh, and also, guess what: it's a five star.pre-read.omgomgomg im so excitedddd!! i actually started this a month ago but abandoned it, and i randomly picked it up today and would u look at that: im halfway through it now!
3586749994	The ARC of this book was provided by the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Full review HEREThis book is a very solid debut novel and I'm so glad I got the chance to read it! It's a Romeo and Juliet retelling set in Shanghai in the 1920s and guys believe me when I say it was everything and more.The story is a fantasy infused with politics. It is set in the world of gangsters where constant fear, backstabbing, and retaliation are a daily occurrence. Nobody is safe and people always have to look over their shoulders. In the midst of this all two families rule over Shanghai underworld, the Cais with their Scarlet Gang and the Montagovs with the White Flowers. And it's from these two families that the main characters come from, Roma who is the heir to the Montagov's White Flowers and Juliette, the princess to the Scarlet empire.But can these two young people prove themselves to be the heirs everyone needs? And how much are they willing to sacrifice? After all, all is fair in love and war.I believe the usual themes of the original play were used in a unique and smart way and I also think that we will see more of them in the next book. Personally, I really appreciated the fantasy elements that this novel deals with. It's not over the top or too complicated, but it's interesting enough to keep the plot going and my attention during the reading experience. There's a madness spreading and it's causing people to kill themselves by clawing their own throats out. Everyone is more scared than ever and the two gangs need to come together in order to find a solution. But will they manage to put aside their differences and succeed? I truly enjoyed this story and I cannot wait to read the next novel in this series.
3586695009	I’m calling it now: I think this is definitely going to be close to the top of the best books of 2021.Absolutely one of my new favorite books.
4073930080	WHAT.THE.HELL.WAS.THAT.ENDING?😀😀I did not just stay awake till 5am to finish this book 😀
3267597976	“A love like theirs was never going to survive in a city divided by hatred. This would be the death of them all.” ★★★★☆ (4.5)blog | instagram | twitter | pinterest *triggers: blood, gore, violence*Can I just start by saying – holy shit. I have another 2020 favourite everyone. I mean, this is an absolute masterpiece. First of all, if you haven’t read this book yet – why? I don’t care if you’re reading something else right now just drop that and go start this one. I literally just finished this and immediately started making an edit for it cause oh my god – I don’t even have words to describe how amazing this book is.You know the feeling you get when a book actually lives up to the hype and your extremely high expectations? This book gave me that and so much more. “I was raised in hatred, Roma. I could never be your lover, only your killer.” It took longer than usual for me to finish this book. The pacing is super slow. However, like I mentioned before, I LOVE THIS SO MUCH. I mean you can tell by the summary that it’s going to be really interesting. And angst you. It’s only the matter of it living up to your expectations. Juliette Cai is an absolute badass. She’s even more badass than the male lead. I’m not even exaggerating. She’s ruthless and sharp tongued and just the perfect female protagonist (and also now on my favourites list). Even though Roma is also amazing, I’m team Juliette all the way.Can we just talk about the rep in this book? It is literally one of the most diverse books I’ve probably ever read. This book takes place in Shanghai in the 1920’s so we have asian rep. We also have gay and trans characters who are absolutely unbelievable. Like the whole cast of characters is great and I love them. But obviously, I’m more partial to Juliette and Marshall. *cue heart eyes* “What would I be if I weren’t a Cai?”Roma had lifted onto his elbow. “You could be a Montagov.” Raise your hand if you went into this book forgetting the fact that Romeo and Juliet ends tragically. *shakily raises hand*This is a Romeo and Juliet retelling with extra scandal, debauchery and a hell of a lot more violence. If all this hasn’t convinced you to pick up this book then I’m sorry, but I have nothing else to say to you. I’m kidding, there’s a lot more I need to rant about. THE SEXUAL TENSION WAS DRIVING ME INSANE. Like we don’t really get much of the “actual romance” until the last 10 ish chapters so it was slowing building up and then BOOM💥. So if you’re wondering if it’s romance heavy – it’s not. It’s really subtle for most of the book. But those moments where Roma and Juliette were arguing and he calls her dorogaya out of habit literally made my heart melt. Like, I lost it 😭 How do you classify this romance in terms of the tropes? I got you. It’s basically an ‘enemies to lovers to enemies to reluctant allies’ with an extreme forbidden romance theme plus an overall star crossed lovers vibe. That’s all I can say without spoiling it.Before I go into the plot a little bit (no spoilers till later, don’t worry), I just wanted to address the fact that in a few chapters in between, the PoV’s get kind of confusing. They’re not clearly differentiated. Like you don’t really know if you’re reading from Juliette’s PoV or Roma’s. It also occasionally dips into the other characters’ PoV. I love all the characters so it’s a win for me but still, it made it a little difficult to follow.This book had a very sciencey – fantastical plot. It had me hooked from the very beginning and it has so much depth to it. Like you think you know what exactly is going on but that’s like only a minuscule part of a much bigger plot. There’s political unrest, conflicts within the gangs, and to top it all off, there’s a contagion that’s killing people. So, you’re basically getting a three in one plot. Also, the writing is absolutely beautiful. “The last thing Juliette wanted to feel for Roma Montagov was nostalgia.”
3661715927	im just going to go right out and say it: i like this better than the shakespeare one. sorry but im actually notTHERE'S NO WAY- NO FUCKING WAY THOSE LAST FEW CHAPTERS WENT THE WAY THEY DID. NO WAY. also the not so subtle nods to the original romeo and juliet story were iconic. the subtle insertion of the ACTUAL NAME. i bow to u ms. gong. ok but yall (view spoiler)[ im scared for benny boy. i ship them together so bad. WHAT IF HES SO SAD HE KILLS HIMSELF ALL ROMEO AND JULIET STYLE- but don't tell me. if yall spoil u die. jk. actually jk jk (hide spoiler)] a real review will come tmrw when ive gained control of my brain cells again. thx for understanding.
4831147785	Auf dieses Buch habe ich mich wahnsinnig gefreut - eine „Romeo und Julia“-Adaption mit asiatischem Setting, das schrie nach einem atmosphärischen Schreibstil, Tension und allerhand Gefühlen. Leider hat mich das Buch in allen Punkten enttäuscht. Angefangen beim Schreibstil: Dieser war sehr distanziert-sachlich und ließ kaum Emotionen aufkommen weder Spannung (was bei Mordfällen und rivalisierenden Gangs doch recht unvorteilhaft ist) noch bezüglich der Charaktere, zu denen ich bis zum Schluss keine Bindung aufbauen konnte. Insbesondere die Liebesgeschichte blieb sehr blass, warum unsere beiden Protagonisten sich (vor Beginn des Buchs!) überhaupt ineinander verliebt haben, blieb für mich unnachvollziehbar. Darüber hinaus werden weitere Gegebenheiten nicht schlüssig aufgearbeitet zb alles was die Beschaffenheit des Wahnsinns und Monsters angeht. Die Rollenverteilung gefiel mir, die Grundidee und die Protagonisten hatten Potential und auch die historischen, politischen Einflüsse waren zum Teil sehr interessant. Letzteres wurde mir dann an der ein oder anderen Stelle jedoch auch ein wenig trocken.Insgesamt ein Buch, das mich emotional überhaupt nicht erreicht hat und auch spannungstechnisch nicht fesseln konnte. Ganz ehrlich, es gab viele Momente, in denen ich überlegt habe, das Buch abzubrechen, doch ich wollte unbedingt abwarten, ob das „Aha“-Erlebnis noch kommt. Leider muss ich sagen, dass ich in diesem Fall den Hype nicht nachvollziehen kann.
3700842781	“Memories were beastly little creatures, after all—they rose with the faintest whiff of nourishment.”Set in Shanghai in the 1920s, the city is divided into two territories with each belonging to the Scarlet Gang and White Flowers gang. With tension in the air and an ancient blood feud pitting the gangs against each other, the idea of working together seems unimaginable. But when a strange madness spreads through the city killing off members of both gangs, Juliette Cai, heir of the Scarlet Gang, and Roma Montagov, heir of the White Flowers, reluctantly agree to work together to find a cure and put an end to the madness before it is too late.“Hope was dangerous. Hope was the most vicious evil of them all.”This book had quite a unique concept as a Romeo and Juliet retelling, and had so much potential. Naturally, I was excited to read this, expecting an engaging story with well-developed characters and a prominent enemies-to-lovers romance relationship filled with angst and tension. Unfortunately, despite its promising start, this was where things fell flat with me and I felt like the execution of the story itself was lacking. The plot dragged on and felt repetitive, the characters felt bland and were difficult to connect to, and the romance was nonexistent until near the end of the book, lacking the angst and tension I was hoping for. I struggled to get through this book or even motivate myself to read it.“They have always said that Shanghai is an ugly daughter, but as the years grow on, it isn’t enough anymore to characterize this city as merely one entity. This place rumbles on Western idealism and Eastern labor, hateful of its split and unable to function without it, multiple facets fighting and grappling.”The plot was one of the main areas that I thought was lacking, and the whole idea of trying to find a monster that spreads the madness, quickly got repetitive and boring, especially when little progress was made in the search for most of the book, and all the action and drama was only shown in the last few chapters of the book. For the majority of the book, the characters repeatedly wander around the city, break into buildings for clues, disturb the citizens going about their daily lives, and accomplish close to nothing. This happened so many times and the book definetely could have been shortened. It didn’t help that there were lots of predictable parts, and the characters took a long time to piece together very basic clues. I have no interest in reading the next book, especially if it’s just going to be a repeat of this book with the characters running around and trying to rescue the city from more bugs again.One of the things I did like though, was the world we were introduced to in this book, and all the political elements and issues tackled in the story. White colonialism is a major aspect of the book that I thought was addressed well, where it was shown how the city was further split by the foreigners who seized control and believed themselves to be superior to the locals even if it wasn’t truly their city. We also got to see how this affected the characters, in particular Juliette, and how at times she felt like a stranger in her own country, with the gangs losing power and control over their territories and the foreigners growing in strength and numbers. Despite this, the book at times felt like it was taking place in present-day Shanghai rather than in the 1920s. The dialogue of the characters is identical to what you’d find in almost any other modern YA book, making it an unrealistic portrayal of the time period in this book.“You destroy me and then you kiss me. You give me reason to hate you and then you give me reason to love you. Is this a lie or the truth? Is this a ploy or your heart reaching for me?”The characters felt very bland and underdeveloped, and I had little interest in them. The only character that I liked was Juliette, since she was a layered character and we got to see her struggles in asserting her place as heir of the Scarlet Gang. I felt like she was quite a relatable character, when we saw her efforts to prove her worth to her gang and her parents, and I liked how she was tough and confident in her own abilities. Compared to Juliette, Roma was just a cardboard cutout. He didn’t have any special skills or distinguishable qualities, and he was such a bland love interest to Juliette. In fact, I had the same issue with the other characters, there was nothing special about them that made them really stand out, and they all felt bland and boring to me. Their contributions to the story didn’t feel that significant either, and the narration between most of them felt repetitive, and just plain boring.The romance didn’t even feel like it was there. There was no angst, no yearning, and literally no chemistry between Roma and Juliette. The scenes they had together made me feel absolutely nothing, the romance aspect only started towards the end of the book, and it didn’t help that Roma was so bland and boring in contrast to Juliette which made their relationship far less interesting. Even though this is advertised as a Romeo and Juliet retelling, the romance is nonexistent for the vast majority of the book. This book was such a disappointment and didn’t work out for me at all. It is unlikely that I’ll be continuing this series, as I had little interest in the plot and characters of this book, and do not feel compelled to continue on. If anything, this book was just another example of why you shouldn’t judge a book by its cover, because a good cover doesn’t necessarily mean the book itself is good.2/5 stars
3644389971	Thank you Netgalley for providing me with a copy of These Violent Delights in exchange for an honest review. In Shanghai, in 1926, a blood feud that has been ongoing for years continues.Tensions between the Scarlet and White Flower gangs is constant, causing casualties on both sides.4 years earlier heir to the Scarlet gang, Juliette Cai and the White Flower heir Roma Montagov saw past the blood feud and fell in love. That is, until he betrayed her.After some time away, Juliette has returned to Shanghai.Soon people from both sides of the feud start going mad and tearing out their own throats in what seems to be the beginning of a contagion. Juliette and Roma must work past there grudges and discover the cause of the contagion before both gangs are wiped out. What I liked about this book This is a really interesting take on Romeo and Juliette. It has an original and enjoyable premise.The character line up is really diverse. I particularly liked Kathleen. Her loyalty and kindness are admirable.Action packed scenes keep the story moving forward at a fast pace What I didn't like Due to the fact that this is a Romeo and Juliette retelling, I expected a lot more from the romance.The perpetrator is quite obvious from the first few chapters.These Violent Delights ends on a cliffhanger leading me to believe that there will be a second book. I didn't get what I was expecting from this book, though I did enjoy it.3.75 stars✮✮✮✭Find this review and others on my blog
3512017810	UPDATE: 9/11/23 - Reread and loved it all over again! CW: lots of blood and goreWell that was utterly amazing and I thoroughly enjoyed it!The setting was nothing short of incredible with sumptuous writing to help immerse us into 1920s Shanghai. Everything felt so vivid in my mind and it's hard to believe that this is a debut novel. I loved all the characters and appreciated the diversity, although there were a fair number to keep a track of on both sides of the gang feud. The fascinating political backdrop was a blend of real and imagined and I loved the references to Romeo and Juliet that were woven throughout the story. I thought it was a clever reimagining that incorporated the themes of the original play beautifully. I only just finished and am still a little bit stunned by this lush and complex story and by the spectacular ending. I genuinely loved it.
3478185392	Full review now up @ https://bookerification.com/these-vio... To anyone expecting a close retelling of Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet, this book is not that. ‘These violent delights’ is a loose, loooooose, l-o-o-s-e (have I said LOOSE?) homage to the tale of Romeo and Juliet. Nevertheless, it is a refreshing blend of romance, mystery, history AND fantasy. "Those who do not care, those who are violent, those who delight in that which is terrible… they thrive" Right from the first page, Chloe Gong’s vivid writing style arrests the attention of unsuspecting readers. The ensuing world-building is skilfully detailed and fleshed out with no noticeable information dumps. In particular, Chloe effortlessly captures the historical context of 1926 Shanghai - from the picturesque descriptions of the city to the tense political climate. _______________________________________ Full review to come @ https://bookerification.com/ 3.5 stars! Unexpected twists + unanswered questions = GIVE ME THE NEXT BOOK!!
4242812639	3.5 stars 🌟
3496529153	Rarely does a rainy day recommend you a book, when you can hear the thunder screaming and the rain pelting the windows—as if warning you to read this book now or you’ll be drenched in tears—and you decide to actually honour the anticipation building within you by picking it up right then. But one such day did recommend These Violent Delights to me and I shall be sending a thank you letter to whoever operates the tap in the clouds.These Violent Delights sharpens the edges of a classic by retelling it through a lens of another era while never holding back from suffusing originality, individuality, and an independent perspective on all aspects of this masterpiece. Heirs of two rival gangs taking up their responsibilities while remembering (and often trying not to) their past, a monster emerging from the waters, and political revolution waiting to unfold, this historical fantasy is painted within Shanghai of mid 1920s. consider reading this review over on my blog! Juliette, heir to the popular Scarlet Gang, strengthens her stance with heightened fervour as a young woman who recently returned from the States; Roma, heir to The White Flowers, abides by his father’s commands with conflict as an emotionally responsive young man left with no room to opine. Both didn’t choose this life, both gangs are being triggered by the same threat, and both can kill each other if witnessed in the rival’s territory—at the behest of unsaid sectional rules set up to avoid bloodshed.Like a whetted blade awaiting its purpose to destroy, the two come together with a repulsiveness that frequently gets replaced by yearning, to uncover the mysterious infection clawing at people’s throats and apprehend the larger ambition behind the dreadful eyes of a monster beneath the sea, behind the violent spread of this lurgy, and behind the growing change in the political scene. Akin to the sharp blade, this coalition does destroy—the heart of every reader. The lesser I speak of the romance, the more one would fully immerse themselves in a bath of scarlet roses and white flowers. But nothing about this rivals-to-lovers is relaxing. It’s a tsunami of contention, inclination, and an ache that will upheaval even the steadiest of your grounds and you’ll agree that something with such disorder and disruption can only be excellence.It’s simply this excellence that perfectly balances an exclusive focus on the Roma-Juliette while also rolling a film of side characters who possess distinctive personalities. With absolutely no retention of Romeo and Juliet, considering I haven’t read it yet, I’m not the best person to draw any sort of parallels at the moment but if I ever review the classic, I’ll draw parallels with These Violent Delights in that review.The other side of me as a history fanatic did connect dots with a knowledge of the Northern Expedition, imperialism, the Nationalist & the Communist parties, and the factory strikes igniting the first sparks of a revolution while foreign powers still dominate over the government. Like an icing on the cake, the varying aspects that deliver such superiority are imbued with heartfelt strands of identity, familial expectations, and emotional bonds that aren’t easy to escape from.Read this historical fantasy romance for the love filled with angst, for a fierce heroine, a lover hero, and for all the complexities that can justify my lack of words to precisely sum up why this is easily one of my favourites of the year. ↣ an early digital copy received via netgalley. 19.09.2020 finished this and I AM DED AT THE END; i need the next book, there has to be a next book, tell me there's a next book. rtc.💓 rival-but-lovers yearning☠️ mystery around a contagious disease⚔️ mid-late 1920s colonial & political history of China01.09.2020 BYE WORLD, I HAVE BEEN BLESSED. i can finally read an eARC and i can finally experience the sheer amazingness of this book that has made every reader I trust go AHHHH. buddy read with the best, rameela! 15.08.2020 there's nothing more i want than to read this book. everyone start praying for me because i want an early copy like right now.
3346679439	4.25 stars“A long time ago, Roma had told Juliette that her anger was like a cold diamond. It was something she could swallow smoothly, something to be placed upon other people, gliding along their skin in glitter and glamour before they realized far too late that the diamond had sliced them to pieces. He had admired her for it. Mostly because his own anger was the precise opposite—an uncontrollable wave of fire that knew no subtlety.”Now this is a Romeo and Juliet retelling I can get behind. I've discovered that the only way the enemies-to-lovers trope appeals to me is when the lovers have a shared history. They were friends, or lovers before, until a rift torn them apart. The good thing about doing the trope this way is I don't roll my eyes out when the main character checks out the enemy's hot bod even though they're supposed to hate the other person.I can feel the simmering hate Juliette has for Roma. It seems like a weird thing to praise, but it shows These Violent Delights's authentic usage of trope. She hates him, yet there is also longing and a sense of camaraderie stemming from a now shattered trust. It’s not as superficial as physical attraction.Aside from the romance, I also really liked the cultural setting and Juliette's struggle with diaspora. Colonialism is not as black and white as woke culture claims and colonizers frequently leave an indelible mark on the countries they once occupied, irrevocably altering citizens' sense of identity. In this case, Juliette was sent to the US when she was relatively young and is now too foreign to be Shanghaiese, too Chinese to be American.“Could she never be both? Was she doomed to choose one country or the other? Be an American girl or nothing?”The side characters are interesting too. This book has multiple POVs, though Juliette occupies around 60%. There's the dancer Rosalind who is akin to a sister to Juliette; Kathleen who is a transgender woman; then Marshall and Benedict from the Montagov side. Benedict seems to be on the autistic spectrum and has a cute thing going on with Marshall.A few clunky sentences here and there, but why quibble when the rest of it is fantastic?“The stars incline us, they do not bind us.”
3456968159	I preordered this book simply because people seemed to be enjoying. I really did not know too much about it other than the fact it is a Romeo and Juliet retelling set in 1920s Shanghai with rival gangs. That is really all I needed to know.Chloe Gong’s These Violent Delights follows two rival gangs - the Scarlet Gang and the White Flowers - in 1926 Shanghai as they are forced to navigate their blood feud amid an outbreak of “madness” or a contagion as well as rumors of a monster. The story centers around Juliette Cai of the Scarlet Gang and Roma Montagov of the Russian White Flowers. Despite their history, the two must put aside their differences to work together to save themselves and their community. Stakes are even higher for Roma who is trying to save his little sister. However, working together turns out to be even harder to fathom for the two because Roma was Juliette’s first love who also betrayed her. I honestly loved the cast of characters that Chloe Gong creates in her story. While Juliette and Roma are the main focus, they both have their own friends and family that stand out. Starting with the Scarlet Gang, I love Juliette’s attitude and how fierce she is. I really appreciated how Gong incorporates how being sent away before impacts who she is and how she thinks about her home. Juliette is willing to do whatever it takes to protect the Scarlet Gang. I really enjoyed seeing her interactions with her family. Kathleen and Rosalind Lang were interesting characters. I hope their trials and motivations are explored a bit more in the second book too. However, I think we can all agree that Tyler Cai sucks. The White Flowers were no exception to the wonderfully written characters. Roma struggles with being heir to the White Flowers, but ultimately, like Juliette, he does what he has to. It was interesting to see how he thought about violence and fighting compared to Juliette. She may be more aggressive and impulsive compared to him, but Roma has no other choice when it comes to saving his sister. I also enjoyed seeing how Roma and Juliette kept each other in check or balanced each other. Just like I wanted more with the side characters from the rival gang, I cannot wait to read more about Marshall Seo and Benedikt Montagov. I am excited to see where their relationship goes. This cast of characters is even more important because they are very inclusive. Gong does a lot for representation here by including characters who are Chinese, Korean, Russian, queer, etc. Kathleen is also transgender. I hope the next book also expands on this more and addresses her possibly transphobic father. Juliette and Roma’s relationship was one of my favorite parts of this book. I trusted everyone else’s opinion and did not even read the full synopsis, so I did not even know that the two had a very complicated past. I was genuinely so surprised when it was revealed that their relationship was lovers to enemies. There are so many more layers to that though. It was more like friends to lovers to enemies to lovers to enemies. I was overall really impressed with the author’s writing. It was very engaging and atmospheric. I was really taken by surprise, especially since I did not love Romeo and Juliet. My only minor critique is that the pacing felt off at times, which could be why some people have commented on it being boring. I think in the second half of the book the story really picks up and is worth it in the end. This book becomes even more unique since there is a monster lurking and causing havoc. I do not understand how Gong makes all these layers work, but they really do. She makes this retelling her own unique story, but in a way that also includes more representation and comments on other important topics like colonialism and gender. I like that she addresses foreign and Western colonialism as a threat to everything Juliette knows and fights for. I do highly recommend These Violent Delights. There are some minor things keeping it from being a five star read, but I expect book two will make up for it. The characters, plot, writing, and atmosphere are all unique, rich, and engaging. Chloe Gong is incredibly talented, and I cannot wait to read more of her future works. *Content warnings: Blood, violence, gore, character deaths, explicit description of gouging self (not of their own volition), murder, weapon use, insects, alcohol consumption, parental abuse, transphobia*
4217962547	What I liked about this novel: the strength and nuances of Juliette’s characterization, Chloe Gong emphasizing the destructiveness of colonialism and the entitlement of white supremacy, and the vibe that I got that Gong genuinely enjoyed writing These Violent Delights. I’m here for stories with kickass Asian women who are also fiercely complicated and emotional.Sadly, I didn’t enjoy many other aspects of this book. I found the framework of Romeo and Juliet boring – Juliette and Roma’s romance didn’t spark much for me, and I felt like the “screen time” taken up by the romance could have been spent developing all the characters in more interesting ways. While the plague mystery plot felt high-stakes-ish, it failed to capture my full attention, especially because I felt like so many of the scenes served as filler to build up the tension between the not-so-exciting romance between Juliette and Roma. I am curious to see if Gong’s writing develops over time.I’m a bit bummed that I’ve been reading so many three-star books lately. I’m hoping that changes! It’s been an especially long time since I’ve read any science-fiction or fantasy with more complex and developed characters. Any recommendations are welcome.
