155184268	”One of these things, as far as anyone ever can discern, looks like a woman; the other, warped in the shape of a man, moves beyond the pale bigger than any man, an unnatural birth called Grendel by country people in former days. They are fatherless creatures, and their whole ancestry is hidden in a past of demons and ghosts. They dwell apart among wolves on the hills, on windswept crags and treacherous keshes, where cold streams pour down the mountain and disappear under mist and moorland.” It rained, but it was too cold to be raining. A combination of warmer atmosphere and colder temperatures on the ground produced an ice storm. The storm came in over the weekend so I could sit comfortably by my fireplace and watch out the window as the rain formed into sheets of ice on the streets and sidewalks. Power lines thickened as they became cubed in ice. Foot long and longer icicles dangled and swayed from the power lines, from the eaves of houses, from signs, from fence lines. The most affected though were the trees. The trees with the thicker branches were the most distressed, groaning under the added weight. As the ice accumulated on the branches of the smaller trees they bent and twisted to the ground. They became monsters, slumbering beneath an armor of ice. I’d been thinking about rereading Beowulf for some time. This story has been a part of me for almost as long as I can remember. The idea of a mere man taking on a monster that was much stronger than most men, and finding a way to defeat him was compelling and inspiring mythology for my young mind. The terror of it, the monster that comes into your home and slaughters your friends and families in the dead of the night and takes heads as trophies, left shivers in the very center of me. Beowulf hears of a monster who is attacking the Danes. He is one of thirteen men who decide to go to the rescue of Hrothgar, King of the Danes. He goes because he needs to make a name for himself, as Buliwyf in the movie The 13th Warrior says: ” I have only these hands.” Beowulf is poor, renown for his strength, but he has no Hall to call his own and, but for this small band, no men to call him King.”Their mail-shirts glinted, hard and hand-linked; the high-gloss iron of their armour rang. So they duly arrived in their grim war-graith and gear at the hall, and, weary from the sea, stacked wide shields of the toughest hardwood against the wall, then collapsed on the benches; battle-dress and weapons clashed. They collected their spears in a seafarers’ stook, a stand of greyish tapering ash. And the troops were as good as their weapons.” I had spent most of the day finishing another book and, thus, had started reading Beowulf late in the evening. My wife and our Scottish Terrier had gone to bed, and I was left in the soft glow of my reading lamp. Most of the city had lost power as lines too heavy with ice had crashed down one by one. It never crossed my mind, power or no power, that I would go to bed. I had candles close to hand. Beowulf was written in Old English between 975-1025. The Seamus Heaney translation that I read had the Old English on one page and Heaney’s translation on the other page. In college, I took a Chaucer class and became a fair hand at deciphering Middle English, but looking and even pronouncing these unfamiliar words did not ring any ancient bells in my English soul. To use an old phrase it was Greek to me. 1,000 year old manuscript of Beowulf. As Beowulf grapples with Grendel and then with Grendel’s mother, I was just as enthralled with the story as I was as a wee tot. The carnage, the darkness, the uncertainty that Beowulf had to feel, despite his boasts to the contrary, all lend a fine, sharp edge to the tale. As I read, I also started to hear the sharp cracks and howls of ice laden tree limbs separating from their trunk in much the same way as Beowulf pulls Grendel’s arm loose from his shoulder. The crash of these ice shrouded branches against the frozen ground resounded in my mind like the steel swords of the Geats banging against their metal wrapped shields. Curiosity got the better of me, and I walked out of my back door into an alien landscape. Each individual stem of grass had frozen into a nub of ice. With every step, my boots crunched and slipped across this icy topography. Piles of limbs lay at the bottoms of the bigger trees. A small limb detached from the cottonwood tree as I stood there and made discordant music as it bounced against the limbs below before finally landing among its fallen, dying brethren on the ground. The younger trees, more limber, were probably fine, I told myself. They are bowed over as if in supplication to Mother Nature. Their top branches were frozen to the ground, making arches of their shapes. It was all very beautiful. I remembered reading about a party that was given for the Russian princess Anastasia before her life became tangled in the turmoil of revolution. The servants were outside spraying water on the trees so they would glitter with ice as the aristocracy arrived on their horse pulled, bell laden sleighs. I went back inside and peeled off my boots and jacket and eagerly returned to Beowulf. Another log was required for the fire, so I spent a few moments poking the remaining logs to make room for more wood. I flinched as I heard more crashes from outside. An assembly of Geats preparing for battle? When I finally settled back into my chair, Beowulf has become King of the Geats and is fighting battles with the greatest champions of the land. He involves himself in disagreements. ”When Eofor cleft the old Swede’s helmet, halved it open, he fell, death-pale: his feud-calloused hand could not stave off the fatal blow.”I just loved that…feud-calloused hand. I also really liked..”your blade making a mizzle of his blood.” There are evocative lines like that all through the story. Words unfamiliar and redolent of a different age. An older and slower Beowulf does need the help of others in his final battle against a dragon, but few men are made of the same courage, and those standing with him failed to help him when he needed them most. He does kill the dragon, but at the cost of his own life. What better way for a legendary warrior to leave this world with his sword in his hand and his armor stained with dragon's blood. Valhalla has a place waiting for him. No sword blade sent him to his death,My bare hands stilled his heartbeatsAnd wrecked the bone-house. Now blade and hand,Sword and sword-stroke, will assay the hoard.” Stormy weather requires the proper book and a cuppa of strong hot Welsh tea laced with a splash of Scotch whiskey. For me Beowulf, those 3,182 muscular and magnetic lines, added enchantment and necromancy to a world transforming before my eyes into something magical and unknown.If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.comI also have a Facebook blogger page at:https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten
4319606992	I vaguely remembered reading this in 7th grade and thought it might be fun to grab the audio version of one of the most important works of Ye Olde English literature.I listened to this twice the other day and then realized a funny thing:Beowulf is basically every 80's action movie ever made. It's true. Hear me out before you start shaking your head no.The entire story centers around one guy wanking around the known world and loudly bragging about himself at every opportunity. He's the ultimate He-Man, who comes complete with a set of bro-groupies that faithfully follow him from adventure to adventure while jerking him off and singing his praises - all while he shows off his super-strong hand grip powers. And yet, there exist those individuals who will simultaneously scoff at the peasants who enjoy a good mindless action flick and solemnly commend this who knows when it was actually written tale of heroes & monsters. Because it's old poetry.Ok, imagine this: 10 thousand years from now, for whatever reason, nothing much of our current society has survived.Except the script for Rambo.Which one, Anne? <--doesn't matter, take your pick. And now the Future People think that it is some huge clue to how we all lived, while their scholars praise the unknown author for the poetic phrasing. Rambo will be immortalized as a hero of yore, and little girls in middle school will have to create shitty dioramas of his famous battles.Poor little girls. <--I feel for you.My point is this, if any of you are ever tempted to look down your nose on those of us who spend our time reading comics and watching shit blow up on the big screen, whilst you sip your overpriced coffee and peruse classic literature, remember this was the 8th century's version of John Wick - minus the dog. And that was what survived.Lowbrow entertainment, FTW!
1025125245	As a college English major, I studied Beowulf without any great enthusiasm; my real love was for the Romantic poets. And Chaucer, but that might have been partly because I thought it was hilarious that we were studying such bawdy material at BYU. Plus you can still puzzle out The Canterbury Tales in its original Middle English, with the help of a few handy annotations, while Beowulf in the original Old English--other than the immortal (at least in my mind) line "Bēowulf is mīn nama"--is beyond anyone but scholars, and it loses something in translation.So I cheerfully forgot about Beowulf until I was puttering around in Barnes and Noble one day, and came across Seamus Heaney's recent translation. I read his foreword and was absolutely entranced by its brilliance. Heaney tosses off phrases like "the poem possesses a mythic potency" and talks about the "three archetypal sites of fear: the barricaded night-house, the infested underwater current, and the reptile-haunted rocks of a wilderness." He discusses how we are enveloped "in a society that is at once honour-bound and blood-stained, presided over by the laws of the blood-feud." And he explains in detail how he went about creating a new translation of the poem and the difficulty of finding the right voice:A simple sentence such as "We cut the corn to-day" took on immense dignity when one of [my father's relatives] spoke it. They had a kind of Native American solemnity of utterance, as if they were announcing verdicts rather than making small talk. And when I came to ask myself how I wanted Beowulf to sound in my version, I realized I wanted it to be speakable by one of those relatives.Anyway, all this is to explain why, after years of blissfully ignoring Beowulf, I felt compelled to buy this book and give it another try. Did it hold up to my hopes? Well, not quite. I still appreciate Beowulf more than I love it. But I heard the solemn, deliberate voice that Heaney was seeking to use, and I thought he did a great job of translating it as well as possible into modern English while preserving the original feel and intent of the poem. I love the liberal use of alliteration and the compound words (whale-road = sea; ring-giver = king) that are found in the original version of the poem as well as this translation. I felt the side-by-side nobility and brutality of these characters from (it's surmised) 6th century Scandinavia. And I was getting some serious Tolkien vibes from the ending, which is not at all a bad thing.In the end, it was a bit of a tough slog reading through the entire poem, but I'm glad I did it. I think I still love Heaney's foreword more than I love the actual Beowulf poem. I need to check out J.R.R. Tolkien's Beowulf translation one of these days.
2629803	If I wrote a list of things I don't give a shit about, I'm pretty sure "some big fucking monster whose name sounds like a word for the area between my balls and my ass that attacks alcoholics and is eventually slain by some asshole, told entirely in some ancient form of English that I don't understand" would be near the top (for the record, run-on sentences would not. Judge not).This was one of the first books I was ever assigned to read in high school, and I'm pretty sure it was the catalyst to my never caring about school again. God do I hate this fucking book.
4504587116	“The gap of danger where the demon waits is still unknown to you. Seek it if you dare.” Written by an Unknown author, Beowulf is the most famous work of Old English literature - a mythical epic that influenced J.R.R. Tolkien and the whole fantasy genre. Beowulf is a heroic epic about a Germanic hero, a Christian vision of a pagan heroic life - in which epic hyperbole exaggerates stories of individuals and creates a cult of warrior heroism. In a lot of ways, Beowulf is an ultimate monomyth as the story evokes the primordial myth, the myth of the process of individual mental growth and the development of universal human consciousness. In the story the hero Beowulf is confronted with three archetypes in the process of individuation - Shadow, Anima and Self - in Grendel, Grendel's mother and dragon. Beowulf's confrontation with these three figures embodies the Jungian stages of life in the context of his special role within the community. So the myth can seen as the myth of male initiation and individuation.The poem is written in complex Old English with Anglo-Saxon accent alliterations, inversions and paraphrastic repetition. The composition is disordered in excessive repetition, slowness, interruption in the course of action. It consists of numerous episodes, inserted stories as the poet interrupts the unique course of action. That accentuates the notion that the passage of time is a mere human illusion as the past, present and future are inseparable parts - it is difficult to find a thread of wisdom in present without looking at the past and the future at the same time. Digressions should not be interpreted as vagueness but as variations of the basic theme - emphasizing the opposite in paraphrastic, comparative sentences, alluding to the fact that everything in nature, history, and human psyche comes in the pair of opposites.The epic is set in Scandinavia in the 6th century and the plot is a combination of fiction, myth and history of the age of patriarchal warrior aristocracies. Lévi-Strauss’s question —“Where does history end and where does mythology start?”—is worth posing for its bearing on the poem’s main plot, as we can see in the illustrated edition, a lot of archelogical findinds corresponded with poem's story.The atmosphere of the poem is dignified and gloomy, and without the sun and without the serenity the cold wind of the northern seas blows from the poet's verses, dark clouds and fogs. In that harsh climate live warlike tribes whose reality is harsh and bloody. Beowulf is a symbol, a hero that sublimates their moral values.Beowulf's name is formed from the combination of words; bees and wulf; it means the enemy of bees, which is a metaphorical name for a bear. Beowulf has animal strength, in the hands (bear paws) and body as the animal components of Beowulf allude to shamanic traits. Interestingly, the reader never finds out how does Beowulf or any of the monsters look like; instead there are detailed descriptions of armor, like a mask that secretly shows the essence. Beowulf and monsters are more determined by what they do than by their physicality as they are characters of embodied ideas.The myth is often considered a Christian allegory with pagan elements as it represents a fusion of Christianity and Germanic paganism as both elements are interwoven in the story. The Pagan Vikings saw themselves as prisoners of inevitable fate - there was no consolation that the afterlife would bring a reward to the righteous. The Pagan gods were themselves victims of the inevitable Destiny, so even man had no choice but to make peace with it. But the man did not reconcile with his transience, he sought to leave a trace among the living and therefore fought to gain the fame that will preserve his name from oblivion. This further strengthened heroism as a basic life principle. Individualism could hardly be expressed because the tribal spirit tended to conform everyone to the same ideal mold.Christianization of Scandinavians in the 9th century was difficult because it was hard to reconcile the ideals of tribal morality - aggression, cruelty, boastfulness - with the demands of Christianity - gentleness and modesty. The Biblical idea of the devil in the poem summarizes the creations of Pagan imagination, various evil beings, monsters and ghosts.The Christian symbolism is prominent in the poem. The story starts with the child who comes in the basket alluding to the Christian archetype of the child who saves, transforms and brings hope as, for instance, Jesus and Moses did. Also, the royal family tree is laid out as the Jesus family tree is described in the prologue of the Gospel of Matthew. The Danes royal family and blood ties are the cause of loyalty and fidelity - but the inheritance is as burdened as Jesus', as many of the family members are sinful murderers of their relatives. Later on, the monster Grendel is continuously described as Cain's descendant, jealous of people celebrating in the court regardless of sin, and he could attack them because they had the same inheritance.The Hall of Heorot is akin to Solomon's temple in maintaining the order of society and civilization against chaos- it represents the good values of the community - security, prosperity, togetherness, abundance, honor, hospitality, heritage, protection. The number 12 is constantly repeated throughout the poem and Beowulf comes in the company of 12 warriors mirroring the 12 apostles, which all fled when the hour of danger stroke and in Beowulf's (Jesus') death - only one disciple remained - Wiglaf (John).Hrothgar represents the archetype of the good King and Father who does not know about the Christian God, who is not capable of protecting his kingdom from the evil lurking in the kingdom - he needs the archetype of hero and warrior, as his ego is facing usurpation of the shadow by the monster Grendel.Grendel can be seen as Shadow on a personal (Beowulf’s and Hrothgar’s) and collective level (of community, Heorot halls). He is also a negative Animus, destructive aspect of Father and King, a kind of Oedipal Monster, the Negative, Tyrannical Aspect of a Father Eating His Children - the opposite, mirror image of Hrothgar. Grendel is portrayed as a hellish, cursed creature - a "monster man" and an "anti-hero", a descendant of Cain, the primordial murderer of the genus, cursed and excluded from human society. He is a symbol of evil and jealousy, blood revenge, a mockery of humanity, a tormented by the sound of joy rising from Hrothgar's hall. He lives in a swamp, a traditional final resting place for those who "pervert their person". Grendel is the shadow of a warrior society, a wild, bloodthirsty “creature” that kills people in the dark. He is the antithesis of a warrior who guards the heritage of culture against the destruction of nature and the destructive attacks of neighboring tribes. Grendel secretly destroys the fabric of society, seemingly from the outside, but in fact from within, from the seed of bloodthirst and death wish lingering in every man.Beowulf much like missionary Paul comes from the sea and brings peace and salvation to a society burdened with evil within and without, the evil of death revenge, murders of relatives, and monsters. He is a missionary, a both Hero and Saviour figure, who brings faith in the true God and peace, and he also comes to destroy, expel evil. He saves pagan Danes by his strength that is more than the ability to defeat monsters - he has the ability to control his instincts and urges and not do morally wrong actions. Unlike impotent hero Unfarth, he's not a killer of his own kin.Beowulf performs the act of symbolical castration on Grendel in tearing his arm and later severing his head. Grendel's death shares a lot with the great myths of beheading and dismemberment in mythology that are in resonance with the creation of the world and the establishment of culture.After Grendel, Beowulf is confronted with Grendel’s Mother as he has to be confronted with the feminine shadow aspect in the Devouring Mother, the opposite of the good queen. Grendel’s mother is a hideous man-eating female dwelling outside the pale of civilization and thus corresponds closely to the fairy-tale image of the witch. In Jungian terms, the symbolic figure of the witch is a negative manifestation of the projection generating archetype known as the anima. The anima represents the contra-sexual nature of a man, and by analogy, the feminine ideal of a male-dominated society. Grendel’s mother is fueled by vengeance in irrational emotionalism and sentimentality and she works out of the sadness of losing Grendel. Irrational emotionalism and sentimentality are the chief “bad attributes” of the feminine archetype in modern western culture and were likely to have been the same 1500 years ago.In his quests Beowulf cannot use earthly methods, his famous swords fail him every time, he can on rely on what he was born with, his strength of a body, soul and spirit. Beowulf wins because he is anointed by God, mirroring Biblical stories, the evil must be defeated on a spiritual level, by faith in God, and the victory comes because God willed so.Dragon is the ultimate and final monster Beowulf is confronted with. Unlike Grendel and his mother, the dragon's origin does not lead to Cain - he is not a mockery of humanity, it is something outside the human realm, a primordial being. Trans-personal in nature, the dragon is not merely a projection of psychic content, but power in itself, far beyond the limited sphere of Beowulf's ego, which lies beyond the relatively shallow depths of mind and nature he has mastered. He symbolizes the Uroboros - completeness of the psyche and the development of the hero that ends in death, the integrity of life and death itself - the place of transformation and enlightenment, finality. The hero is an archetype that must die and the dragon is the evil that will kill him, as history repeats the previously announced Sigemund's story.In constant premonitions of Beowulf's death and demise, there is both Pagan determinism and Christian acknowledgment of death. Unlike the Antic heroes who strived and received immortality with their deeds, Beowulf is a Pagan and Christian hero, that, like Jesus, has to end his heroic life in death - the hero is the one who repeats the work of Christ. The Pagan fatality and tragedy are prominent as Beowulf in the end did all in vain, he did not succeed in saving the Geates, as the other nations that will destroy Geate after his death. Neither Pagan religion nor Christianity saved the Geates - the dragon's treasure that Beowulf winned by his death will not save a nation and is actually useless.In a lot of ways, Beowulf’s death signals the end of a Heroic Age. The dragon is transpersonal nature, the evil that overwhelms even the hero, a fate that no man can escape - the diminishment of all his good deeds, the triumph of destruction. ”For every one of us, living in this world means waiting for our end. Let whoever can win glory before death. When a warrior is gone, that will be his best and only bulwark.” As a myth of initiation, Beowulf has a spiritual value that transcends the needs and imagery of any given historical epoch. Beowulf is a man that mastered “five Giants,” the senses, and then the “sea serpents:” his emotional and sexual nature. Beowulf is also a symbol of a hero that undergoes his psychological transformation and therefore can bring peace to society and culture, and restore order. In times of crises, wars, and monsters, stories like Beowulf’s are needed as they set us to our own quest of finding the psychic wholeness and balance - the act of rebellion against the eternal chaos of the world. “So every man should act, be at hand when needed; but now, for the king, this would be the last of his many labours and triumphs in the world.“
3342610252	Those of you looking for a precise, age-old translation of Beowulf need to go back to Heaney. This is no timeless classic, this is no pretentious, literary snobbery made to bore high school sophomores. This is living, breathing poetry as it's meant to be, rooted in the language of then and the language of now, full of drama and heroes and monsters and oh so much swag. Will this be hilariously dated in fifteen years when the slang has all changed and swole joins the ranks of rad and groovy? Yes. Do I care? Absolutely not. This translation is a masterpiece of its own kind, a unique update that explores the mutability of language and the tradition of oral storytelling in a way that honors the original poet who first wrote this oldest of English and yet brings the characters into a place where today's readers can contextualize and better understand the heart of the poem. This is not a translation for ivory towers and Norton Anthologies of English Literature. This is a translation for reading out loud, for shouting over the noise of bars, for spitting into the slam poetry mic. The rhythm here is just brilliant, the scattered kennings and alliterative lines serving as the beating heart of this story. This translation makes me want to fight dragons, and this Beowulf almost makes me think I could. You might not think this is your cup of tea, but I promise, you are wrong. Because it isn't a cup of tea. It's an old-timey flagon of mead poured into a line of shot glasses on a friendly bar, a whirlwind of words that absolutely pounds through you. Bro! You do not want to miss this.
1938607485	Beowulf is thought to have been written around the year 1000 AD, give or take a century. And the author is the extremely famous, very popular and world renowned writer... Unknown. Got you there, didn't I? LOL Probably not... if you're on Goodreads and studied American or English literature, you probably already knew this is one of the most famous works without an author.It was first really published in the 1800s, using the Old English version where many have translated it, but there are still some blurry parts of the story. Essentially, a monster named Grendel hunts and kills the people of a town and many warriors have died fighting against it. Beowulf tackles the monster and its mother, and well... you're gonna have to read it to find out. Or if you can't get yourself there, watch the Star Trek or Simpsons episode which does a nice little rendition.Here's the reasons why you should take a look at the story:1. Many famous writers and editors have attempted to translate the story into more modern English. Tolkien is a famous example. Each reader has his/her own interpretation. So pick one whose style you like and go to that version.2. It's a translated book... other than the famous Greek literature we read in high school, it's one of the earliest translated forms of literature. Makes it worth taking a gander.3. It's a really great story. Monster terrorizes people. Someone strong steps up to fight it. There is a victory of sorts. Momma wants revenge. So... how many books have you read that have just copied... I mean borrowed... that entire plot?4. There is a lot of beauty in the prose and the verse, and when you hear the words describe the creatures, it's a bit like fantasy. Here's why you may not like it:1. It's long.2. It's hard to understand at some points.3. It's 1000 years old and you just like modern stories.My advice... pick a passage or two, read for 30 minutes and decide if it's something you want to read more of. But you should always give a chance to some part of our early heritage and culture. Right? About Me For those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
3604673035	This is a reread from my high school days. It was fun to reengage with this epic poem. This particular edition is bilingual with Old English on the left and modern English on the right. So technically that cuts the book length in half but does not take away from the story. The poem blends lots of elements of fictional, historical reference, and elements of legends. There are even Biblical allusions of Cain, making him a monster “pained by the sounds of joy.” Beowulf, son Ecgtheow, goes to aid of Hrothgar the Danish king. The Danes are being tormented by a monster, Grendel, who stalks a great hall and kills many men. This epic poem includes the entire tale of Grendel, the monster’s mother, and the fighting of the dragon. I was able to see how Tolkien used the sleeping dragon, underground layer, and cunning thief stealing from the dragon’s hoard of loot. I enjoyed reading this overall. Sometimes I lost focus and found it rambling but some part kept me engaged. This is considered the most important Old English poem and that’s probably why everyone has to read it in school. Thanks!
2547713	I've just finished reading Beowulf for the third time! But lo, this reading was in the bold and exciting Beowulf: a New Verse Translation by Seamus Heaney! And what a difference a day makes - Heaney is unstoppable! Rather, he makes Beowulf unstoppable. Unstoppable in his ability to pound you in the face with his manliness and leave you bleeding-but-strangely-desiring-more.As I said, I've read the epic Anglo-Saxon poem several times now, but usually, I'm trudging through to get to the "good parts" (i.e., Beowulf's three notable feats), but this time, I was taken aback! The whole durned thing was the good parts! What luck! I read it over the space of three days and boy is my voice tired (I have a distinct inability when it comes to facing these sorts of tales - I have to read aloud. And with an accent. And with bluster).One of the coolest things spicing up this reading (besides Heaney's great translation) was the juxtaposition of the Old English to the translation. As you may know, the only surviving copy of anything close to an original Beowulf is written in Old English (or Anglo-Saxon) from 'tween AD 700 and 1000. Now Old English isn't just archaic some King James English with lotsa thees, thous, and forsooths, as many people seem to think. It's the illegitimate birth father of Middle English (which I believe came about sometime after AD 1066) which in turn spawned Modern English. Modern English includes the English used in both Shakespeare and the King James Bible as well as the haphazard trash we sprechen today. In truth, Old English is nearly indecipherable. Below, I've included the first three lines of Beowulf, which are not only a great example of what I'm talking about, but strangely fitting for who I am: Hwæt wê Gâr-dena in geâr-dagum Þêod-cyninga Þrym gefrûnon, hû ðâ æÞelingas ellen fremedon. Fun, no? Well... so you know, that translates as: So. The Spear-Danes in days gone by and the kings who ruled them had courage and greatness. We have heard of those princes' heroic campaigns. Hoorah! Hoorah for the Spear-Danes! And...*ahem* ..who cares if by the time Beowulf comes around their busy getting their butts eaten off by Grendel. Hoorah for the Spear-Danes! Hoorah for Gâr-dena (and doesn't that sound like a wonderful name for a city?).In any case, it was fun to look over at the Anglo-Saxon to see if I could decipher any of it. Alas, my attention was so rapt upon the tale that I didn't take as much time to peruse the original as I would have liked. But since I bought it, I should be afforded plenty of time for such trivialities.
3122688992	Bro! Maria Dahvana Headley has turned an esteemed classic into a fast, powerful 4D Dolby Surround action extravaganza that exudes the joy of storytelling. I've always wanted read "Beowulf", an Old English epic poem from the Early Middle Ages consisting of 3,182 alliterative lines that has survived only in the Nowell Codex. Unfortunately though, I don't understand Old English and I've also struggled with renditions that try to emulate some kind of ancient English (like the ones by J.R.R. Tolkien and Seamus Heaney). Now, Headley comes along and serves us a fierce, modern version of the text that makes for a riveting read. Beowulf (which probably was intended to mean "bee wolf", so "bear"), the warrior hero of the Geats, saves the day when he comes to help the Danish king who has been under attack from Grendel, an unspecified ferocious being and descendant of Cain. Beowulf slays Grendel and then Grendel's mother, a female warrior who wanted to avenge her son. So Beowulf is #badass, or, as he himself explains in Headley's translation:"Yes: I mean - I may have bathed in the blood of beasts,netted five foul ogres at once, smashed my way into a troll denand come out swinging, gone skinny-dipping in a sleeping seaand made sashimi of some sea monsters.Anyone who fucks with the Geats? Bro, they have to fuck with me.They're asking for it, and I deal them death."Beowulf travels home, becomes king and, 50 years later, slays a dragon and dies. Throughout the whole poem, vigilance, loyalty, and courage are core themes, and it's safe to say that out warrior-king isn't particularly woke when it comes to the importance of riches and fame: So. much. gold. Plus a momument at the shore - sure, why not. Reading this old text was so much fun, and Headley wrote a fantastic foreword explaining the importance of the text, talking about the feat of translating it and her intention to do right by the women in the text: For instance, "aglæca" was often translated as "hero" when referring to Beowulf, but Grendel's mother, the "aglæc-wif", suddenly was a "monstrous hell-bride" (Heaney), not a "warrior wife". A great book, now I have to read The Mere Wife.
3005833172	I really don’t think I started Beowulf in the right mindset, and for the first 20 pages I actually wasn’t enjoying it very much at all. I think this was because I started reading with certain expectations — namely in terms of style, for I am familiar with Seamus Heaney’s poetry. I was put off because, I think, it was not what I was anticipating. There were only a few lines whose construction I really stopped to pool over. But — game changer — then I listened to the piece read in the original old English, and started reading it aloud to myself. And my appreciation of the language was completely reformed. My favourite line — “the world’s candle warmed them” (line 1966)
87887458	Beowulf and his drunk meathead friends are having a loud party, and their neighbor Grendel comes over like hey guys, can you keep it down? - that's funny because actually he eats a bunch of them - and then Beowulf tears his fuckin' arm off and nails it above his door, and honestly nobody really comes out of this looking like a good neighbor, do they? So like Humbaba in Gilgamesh, or Odysseus’s cyclops, Polyphemus, we have a monster of questionable monstrosity. Because Beowulf started this fight, right? And then Grendel's mom gets involved, as moms do, and then later there's a dragon. It’s become fashionable lately to claim that the Dark Ages weren’t so dark. There were great civilizations like the Celts and the Golden Age of Islam; there was extensive trade; things weren’t so bad. This is not entirely true at the best of times - seriously, this was a shitty thousand years full of wars and plagues - but it’s especially untrue when we're talking about literature. Between the fall of Rome and the Renaissance in the 1300s, there is not much good stuff to read. So the stoic, tragic, beautiful Beowulf is one of the few high points in this whole millenium. Here's what it sounds like. Check out the alliteration - that’s when words start with the same letter; in most Old English stuff, like this and the awesome Gawain, they didn’t use rhyme so much. They depended on alliteration. (By the way, if you want a challenge, look on Youtube for someone reciting Beowulf without holding a sword. The crossover between fans of this poem and fans of Dungeons & Dragons is pretty heavy.)I've read Beowulf like five times now. This was my second time through Heaney's translation, which (like Armitage's translation of Gawain and the Green Knight) conveniently gives the original text on the left side and Heaney's translation on the right. That's super cool, and this is the exact translation that appears on The Toast's list of books that literally all white men own, so I guess that tells you whether you should buy it or just borrow it from some white dude you know. You can come over any time, I got a nice living room. Here it is, with a custom bookmark my friend Frank whipped up special on his 3D printer, it's Grendel's arm.(More of my custom bookmark project here)
3546769527	I had to read Beowulf for my British Literature class, and my goodness was it one excellent read! I had heard vicious rumours that Beowulf was difficult to read and rather boring, and they were all wrong. I found Beowulf to be an exciting epic that grasped my attention better than Games of Thrones or the Witcher ever did. I was truly blown away and really loved reading into this story. It did help having an English Professor walking us through some of it, but either way it was marvellous.Beowulf is a warrior coming to Hrothgar's aid. The wicked monster Grendel has plagued Heorot (Hrothgar's famous mead hall) for twelve long years. Nothing has gotten rid of the vicious monster who was tormenting them and killing off all the Spear-Dane men he could find. Good ole Beowulf comes around and slaughters him, has to deal with Grendel's Mother and finally has to fight a dragon. Can you get any more epic than that? I can see how this poem influenced a lot of today's modern stories. It's truly epic and really interesting. I really liked this poem and want to read more like it. It's a truly marvellous classic.Five out of five stars.
449945199	What an epic should be... a valiant epic that will relish the joys of poetry at the hands of the translator who has made it possible once more. I enjoyed reading it many times but a free-fall into the chasm of poetry was even more interesting and enlightening.
1429679	There are different ways to translate, and it comes down to what you want to get across. Most creative authors have such a strong voice and sense of story that they will overwhelm the original author. As Bentley wrote of Pope's Iliad: "It is a pretty poem, Mr. Pope, but you must not call it Homer".Sometimes this sort of indirect translation is useful in itself, such as during the transition of the Renaissance from Italy to Britain. Many of the British poets rewrote Italian sonnets into English, and though the line of descent was unquestionable, the progeny was it's own work. Another example might be the digestion of Wuxia and Anime into films such as Tarantino's or The Matrix (though Tarantino's sense of propriety is often suspect).However, in these cases, we can hardly call the new work a translation of the old. You are not experiencing the old work but the inspiration it has wrought. Beowulf is just this sort of translation, capturing the excitement and passion of the story, but obliterating the details which make the work interesting to students of history or literary theory.Heaney's translation is a fun, rollicking epic, able to draw in even uninitiated students, which is no doubt why it is now included in Norton. Unfortunately, it is not a particularly useful tool for teaching the importance of the original work. Heaney severs many connections to the unique world of Beowulf.As the only surviving epic from its time, place, and tradition, Beowulf is a unique vision into a pre-Christian culture outside of the Mediterranean. Though the poem shows Christian revisions, these stand out in stark contrast to the rest of the work, and can usually be easily excised, unlike many pervasive Christian impositions on the 'pagan' cultures.Heaney is not a philologist nor a historian, but a popular poet. He doesn't have the background for conscientious translation, and the clearest sign that his translation is haphazard is the fact that there are no footnotes explaining the difficult decisions that most translators have to make in every line. Heaney also loses much of the alliteration and appositives that marked the artistry of the original.A Beowulf that can exist without context is a Beowulf that has well and truly been separated from its past. Perhaps his translation is suitable for an introduction to the work, but a good professor should be able to teach the original without much difficulty.Then again, perhaps the inclusion of this version in college classes has to do with the fact that college is no longer the path for scholars, but has been given the same equality treatment as art and poetry. College is now meant for your average, half-literate frat boy who only wants a BA so he can be a mid-level retail manager.Heaney's translation certainly suits for them, since it is the easiest version of the story this side of a digital Angelina. It's fun and exciting, certainly worth a read, but doesn't stand up as a translation.
3557709869	3rd read (15th April 2025) update - finished this AGAIN! And yet again, it is awesome. This read through was entirely focused in preparation for an upcoming essay. Whilst the impending essay is not fun.... examining this text in relation to the essay and the major themes was fascinating.“I’ve never known fear; as a youth I fought/ In endless battles. I am old, now,/ But I will fight again, seek fame still,/ If the dragon hiding in his tower dares/ To face me”This is the first time that I read a translation of the original version of Beowulf. I am very familiar with the story, having read the brilliant children’s adaptation of Michael Morpurgo’s, and also the animated 2007 movie with Ray Winstone (a great film). And this did nothing but strengthen my love for the story.Beowulf, the epic poem, was an incredibly interesting and enjoyable read. The form as an epic and the prose immersed me into the Norse world and swept me along what is a riveting story infused with fascinating Norse culture and the fantastical idea of Monster VS Man.“Anyone with gumption and a sharp mind will take the measure of two things: what's said and what's done.”The manner in which fact and fiction, history and mythology, are mixed in this poem is fascinating. On the one side we have the classic gritty Scandinavian world of war and conflict between the clans of the Geats and Jutes and Danes and so on. And then we have monsters such as Grendel, which allow Beowulf to rise to the status of hero that has become so famous.Beowulf himself as a character is interesting, as he is an incredible warrior who’s skills are exemplified through his bravery. But, despite this poem being written in a culture far different than ours, his honour, dedication to duty and courage are compelling traits that still make us route for his character as opposed to his enemies. “I shall gain glory or die.”I love Norse Mythology and Scandinavian history, hence part of the reason I loved this tale. But that is not all. It is an accessible poem that contains themes of heroism, tragedy and everything in between within its prose, which in itself is smooth and stirring. Anyone who enjoys historical tales, mythology or anything linked to such things, I believe that you will love the epic story of Beowulf, which has resonated through the ages.5/5 STARS
3851538418	Like most modern men, I read Beowulf at 18 years old, in college and away from home for the first time, making new friends in an all-male dorm less than lovingly nicknamed The Sausage Factory. My posse was all dorks, mostly English and History majors, the type to shout "Hwat!" when it was time to start a Venture Bros marathon, the kind who'd name their RPG character "Hrothgar, King of the Geats" for a laugh. Beowulf's band of sword swinging brothers-in-arms appealed to us on a deep and primal level, and Headley's spirited translation (wonderfully read by JD Jackson) threw me back in time so forcefully my heart hurts with nostalgia.In her deliciously unrestrained update to the stuffy old translations I labored under in my youth (twice, for whatever reason, once in 10th grade and again in college lit) Headley offers up a crystal clear explanation of this book's history and its significance to literature, and Jackson's gruff gravel voice creates a rich and resonant listening experience. Altogether they breathe fresh life into a centuries-old tale in the most wonderful way.5 stars. All that old man vs dragon stuff hits different at age 36.
11629451	I teach Beowulf in my honors class, and it's a tale I've always loved. There's something about the raw power, the direct yet engaging storyline, the rhythm and tone of the story that draws the reader (or, ideally, the listener) into another world. The social conventions, alien in many ways to our modern mindset, show a world both brutal and honorable, where death and heroism go side-by-side, where every act has consequence and there is no expectation of joy and happiness—these things have to be wrested from existence and are of short duration. And the interplay of the original Pagan story and the Christian elements brought in by our monastic narrator show the tension of a people wrestling with their old beliefs and how to reconcile them with the new. The startling use of language and poetic diction make this a masterpiece of English literature.I've read a dozen translations (and even done my own crude one); each of them has different aspects to recommend it. Heaney's strength is in his poetic voice—he's done an amazing job of preserving the rhythms and alliterations so crucial to the format of the original verse and updated it without being so modern as to lose the flavor of the original. He uses some archaic terms and those of his Celtic ancestors, which work well and do not mar the understanding of readers new to the text. Best of all, this is a parallel translation, with the original Old English on the verso pages.My only quibbles have to do with some of Heaney's word choices. There are debates within the literary community about the nature of the monsters (and the heroes) in the poem, and Heaney takes a pretty hard line, translating some phrases and terms in ways that make his choices seem unavoidable (but which are not always supported in the original). Innocent phrases like "wight" and "spirit" are sometimes glossed as "demon" or "specter," and we lose the sense of some of the wonderful Old English kennings, like the description of Grendel as a mearcstapa, "walker on the borders."Overall, a really fine translation. (And since it's been immortalized in The Norton Anthology and all Norton's student editions, it will be the version most everyone knows for the foreseeable future.)
560483712	The Vikings fierce, brutal, maniacal warriors from the long ago, distant, misty past this Old English epic poem the first in the language. A fable about a man Beowulf fighting fire-breathing dragons set in the fifth century Denmark, Sweden and the North Sea. The epic written in Anglo-Saxon Britain (that tribe newly arrived), around the year A.D. 1,000 but composed centuries before. Michael Alexander translates in verse and does a good job so modern readers can and will enjoy the story. Grendel the terrible enemy, a relentless dragon of the Geats (Goths), a Germanic people living in Gotland, southern Sweden killing and pillaging the rather unfortunates . Still these vicious sea raiders of the innocent themselves are hopeless against the huge serpent. Heroic Beowulf travels to Denmark by ship and presents his services to Dane King Heorot, they too received unwanted merciless attacks by Grendel...Taking his warrior friends by boat on a voyage to find in the sea a swamp, the strange environment there for sure, the fierce struggle in the bloody water, however the beast is in the ... monster's home , the gold and jewels Grendel hoards is tempting. Now the seemingly ordinary tale of good versus evil in a complex poem may to the modern reader, be just a primitive story, historical indeed but why consume it? For the simple reason ancient audiences listening to the saga knew of course there never existed these flying creatures, dragons , the fire breathing monsters, yet the importance of the poem is very apparent and the few who could read this not only enjoyed but felt in their hearts the importance, another 1,000 years later those who perceive will agree. For there are more than one serpent and the mystical monsters are in place of actual problems good and evil for people to decide which side they are on. The choice is for every human individual, however a parable is so much better a way for everyone to understand. Like the Bible stories these go down quicker than ordinary sagas and people enjoy the challenge and thinking they are smart if comprehend. So the Beowulf poem isn't for the timid but the curious those that search around the corner, climb the mountain, sail the open, mysterious sea never looking back, always forward, the future remains cloudy but the Sun will come out and shine for the brave.
1835106617	"But generally the spearis prompt to retaliate when a prince is killed,no matter how admirable the bride may be."I'm astounded by the complexity of this poem. It makes me wish my Germanic philology course lasted forever so we could analyse it word by word, slowly, meticulously, languidly. This is why I personally suggest reading it with the help of a critical guide if you haven't the faintest idea what the poem is about, when and in what cultural context it was written, about the debate about it being Christian or not, etc. If you're willing to do some research by yourself, I promise you're in for a treat.
3660182255	Bro! Hardly fucked by Fate, but rather hashtag blessed for this translation that gives zero shits. Our swole, sword bearing, son-of-a-bitch comes out swinging. Beowulf brings the beatdown, batters beasts, and bests the bringers of blood. Raring to be read aloud, voice raised over the roar of revelry. The song of sweaty soldiers with back slapping swagger who swear on the sword they saw it true. Headley is hard-core, heroic and hardly one to haver, hell-bent on hewing her own history here. Too much? Truly it is a touch too far at times but still a towering testament to her talent. Beowulf rode hard. He stayed thirsty! He was the Man! He was the man.
178735646	I don't know who this "anonymous" guy is but he sure does write some fantastic books. I'll be sure to check his books his other stuff in future.
4498767486	the way these men were so obsessed with their swords that they went as far as naming them will never not be funny to me
2815122384	A DANISH KING, A BRAVE HERO, TWO MONSTERS AND A DRAGON - IF THAT DOESN'T SPELL EPIC, I DON'T KNOW WHAT DOES!✨ Popsugar Reading Challenge 2019✨ ✨✨A book set in Scandinavia✨✨Now. I might be biased here - I am Danish and most of this story takes place in Denmark - but this was truly an epos! I am not usually into poems, but this one actually moved me. "[...] Beowulf and fear were strangers; he stood ready to dive into battle." THE GOOD STUFFWriting: It is not easy to make a battle sound almost beautiful, but the lyrical flow of the writing in this poem actually pulls it off. More than once I found myself rereading a stanza simply because the writing touched something in me. "In the darkness, the horrible shrieks of painAnd defeat, the tears torn out of Grendel'sTaut throat, hell's captive caught in the armsOf him who of all the men on earthWas the strongest." The epicness: There are so many things about this that makes it truly epic. The battles, the bloodshed, the heraldry, the monsters! Beowulf is a hero of the same ilk as Theseus, Hercules and Ragnarok. "So fame comes to the men who mean to win it and care about nothing else." The mystery: This actually lies outside the actual story of the poem and is more about the history of the poem. Because there is so much mystery surrounding the origin of this story. The text was discovered in a monastery in the 16th century but was probably written around 700 AD by an unknown author in England, who somehow had knowledge of Danish and Swedish (Geat) legends and who tried to recast them in a Christian narrative. I might be the only one on this one, but this mystery really captivates me. Might just be because I am an historian...FOLLOW MY BLOG FOR MORE BOOK GOODNESS
6927183073	What can you say about the oldest poem in the English Language? It lives up to its genre- Epic Poem. It doesn’t stop for a moment. Beowulf is honourable, courageous and super humanly strong! He is everything a Norse warrior should be. Seamus Heaney does a wonderful job in keeping the flow in translation- obviously as a poet! This poem gains from learning about Germanic conquest of parts of England, English literature interpretation such as the use of alliteration and Kennings. I know that sounds boring but it really makes the story. Heaney makes this poem easy to read and understand. It’s never dull and plenty to keep teenagers doing their GCSE’s to scholars interested.
486540980	Could not consider the experience complete without reading Heaney's acclaimed translation. The acclaim was well deserved. This version was much easier to read, less choked by stylistic anachronisms and more alive in every sense. Gummere's translation has an elegance and presence that intimidates and exalts the reading but Heaney brings it home, makes it as familiar as Homer's epics and somehow makes us at ease with the strange manes and the stranger tides.
5574948930	This ruled. I had a ton of fun. Don't listen to anyone who dismisses this for using contemporary slang. Should Dante have been writing in Latin? Come on off it. Just because you don't know how Seamus Heaney or Tolkien have manipulated and changed the poem doesn't mean they're more faithful. Everyone who takes a stab at it draws blood in their own way.
3384416914	Un poem epic prețuit de mulți scriitori. Inclusiv de Jorge Luis Borges, care a cules din versurile lui o mulțime de „kenningar”*. În această notă, aș menționa două lucruri.1. Criticii și istoricii literari au elogiat într-o impresionantă unanimitate rescrierea poemului anglo-saxon de către Seamus Heaney (premiul Nobel pentru literatură, 1995).2. Există și o versiune românească a poemului realizată de Dan Duțescu și Leon Levițchi și publicată la Editura pentru Literatura Universală în 1969. Limba traducerii s-a perimat. O prefață consistentă precedă traducerea. Ofer un mic extras:Bătrînul monarh Beowulf se luptă cu un dragon (păzitor al unei comori). La vederea fiarei, înfricoșați, curtenii îl părăsesc. Doar tînărul Wiglaf, fiul lui Weohstan, rămîne alături de rege. Lupta e cruntă. Spada lui Beowulf, Naegling, se frînge. În cele din urmă, cu ajutorul lui Wiglaf, Beowulf ucide monstrul. Regele e rănit de moarte. Are o ultimă dorință, să privească tezaurul: „Coboară acum,scumpul meu Wiglaf, și cată comoara sub stînca cea sură...Mi-i zor să aud zornăindscumpeturi și scule și salbe de aur străvechi,sub gene să-mi joace giuvaeruri și geme,ca mîngîiat de multele minunății,mai lesne să-mi fie a lăsa lumea aceasta...” (cîntul XXXVII, p.124).* Exemple de kenning (în eseul amintit mai sus, și Borges face un mic catalog de metafore): lemnul cel voios = harfa (p.106), fierul-prieten = sabie (p.124) etc.
3520980376	women should be the only people allowed to translate classics, thanksthe "yes. i mean—i may have bathed in the blood of beasts" line and the "any season / is a season for blood, if you look at it in the right light" line made me gay
1704405288	Beowulf - you might have encountered it at a college English class. Your teacher may have written a few of the original lines of Old English on the blackboard and had you try to decipher them. There was probably lots of history taught in that class: the poem was written by an Anglo-Saxon poet some time between the 8th and the 11th century. The poet, a Christian, wrote about events taking place in "heathen" England two or three centuries before. If your English class was anything like mine there was probably a lot of analysis about the "mixture" of world views - the Christian and the Germanic. And all along, you were probably hoping that the teacher move on to something more exciting. But here's why you may want to give this particular classic another try. First, chances are that the Seamus Heaney's translation will convey to you the essential beauty of the poem in a way that other translations couldn't do. And by "essential" I mean that sometimes it takes a poet's sensibility to intuit the right and clear presentation of another poet's meaning. It is not a case of avoiding the literal and the precise but rather the acknowledgment that translation is an art that requires not only scholarship but also creativity and intuition. All you have to do is read Seamus Heaney's introduction and you will know almost immediately that you are in the presence of a man of extraordinary gifts who has taken great care to present you with a work of everlasting beauty. I am not going to tell you about the "plot" of the poem because there is no "plot" other than three battles between a hero and evil represented in various forms. The fact that these representations of evil are "fantastic" only adds to the extraordinariness of this early work. One of the greatest contributions of this edition by Norton is the inclusion of the most incisive critical essays on the poem, including, J.R.R. Tolkien's ground breaking, Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics where Tolkien takes on the countless critics who have lamented the poet's decision to portray conflicts between a man and monsters and dragons in lieu of more historical or more realistic encounters between humans. (Tolkien's essay, by the way, will also give you a greater understanding of why Tolkien chose to do certain things in The Lord of the Rings) What Tolkien will remind you of and what you will feel when you read the poem again is that the story of a man fighting battles he will eventually lose but which he must nevertheless continue fighting is as heart-enhancing today as it was in the eight century. Courage, after all, has little to do with the success of the fight.
4960780905	Imagine being excited about Beowulf! Don't I have other things to read? Hadn't I read it in high school, the Burton Raffel translation? All those fathers and sons I couldn't keep track of? Battles, and boasts? Fortunately for myself, my book club decided to read this new feminist translation by Maria Dahvana Headley, which begins "Bro! Tell me we still know how to speak of kings!" That 'Bro!' gives you a taste of her method, laden with humor, both in the plentiful, playful alliterations and rhymes, and in the anachronisms:"The war-band flew a golden flag over their main man;the salt sea saluted him, so too the storms,and Scyld's soldiers got drunk instead of crying.They mourned the way men do. No man knows,not me, not you, who hauled Scyld's hoard to shore,but the poor are plentiful, and someone got lucky.""Anyone who f*cks with the Geats? Bro, they have to f*ck with me.They're asking for it, and I deal them death.Now I want to test my mettle on Grendel, best him,a match from man into meat. Just us two,hand to hand. Sweet."Headley came to the work because of a long-ago sighting of Grendel's mother in a picture book, a savage wet warrior woman--and was sorely disappointed that Beowulf wasn't about her. She wrote a novel, The Mere Wife (mere meaning sea, or a kind of swamp), about her, then returned to the original text, deciding that she had something she could bring to it. The language, modern, with that relentless alliteration, is the charm of it and brings the whole tale to life, the missing emotion--the way old photographs recolored suddenly make that past world live again.Here's a certain sword:"When Hunlafing lay a legendary sword in his lap, well--it was named Flame-Fang for a reason. Any seasonis a season for blood, if you look at it in the right light.The Jutes knew this blade already. They should'veexpected it to twist, to key their kingdom."That 'key their kingdom'--the force of poetic necessity, of having to fit the line and say the thing and say it right... replacing "to open their kingdom like a key" gives you just a glimpse of the the delight of this translation. The translator's introduction, usually skipped over, was very useful, in that it clued you in to watch for certain people--namely, the women, which usually are overlooked, the way in which they have to navigate this perilous world and safeguard their children. The meaning of kings. It's a translation you could give to a young person, that they could follow, and feel the churn and roar of the times and the seas and the clash of clans, monsters and blood feuds and the loyalty of warriors.The shorter, second part brings in more nuance as the older Beowulf fights his last dragon and considers the mores of his society, the place of kings and heroes, and holds in higher relief the existential complexity of this ancient poem. Can't wait to read The Mere Wife!
3684745082	Translators each have their own aspect of the story that they focus on. For instance, Seamus Heaney focused on the poetic elements of Beowulf.This Beowulf, translated by Maria Headley, is a feminist translation. I support that mission entirely; there are so many aspects of Beowulf that are often overlooked that have to do with gender roles. This translation, however, really fails at delivering much else.There are a couple of real big issues I had with this translation, but the most obvious one is the modern language and lingo that is used. It is possible to update the language while still using timeless language, but Headley does not do this. The text is sprinkled with words like "bro" "dude" (and the most egregious offense) "hashtag: blessed." Using language like this makes the poem sound hokey and in 10 years will be ultimately totally outdated. Can you imagine if, in the 1970s, there were a Beowulf with words like "groovy" in it? How cringe that would sound? This is the same.Headley also does some questionable translation choices even beyond the modern language. For instance, if you are more familiar with Beowulf you may be aware of the fact that the characters in Beowulf are not Christian and do not believe in a Christian God. The narrator is actually the only one who mention biblical references (such as Cain and Able), God, or anything else Christian. This translation, however, makes everyone Christian, or at least refer to a singular God, rather than many gods. I am not sure if this was an attempt at some sort of commentary, or if this was something that was just overlooked, but the fact that there is uncertainty about this makes it poorly handled either way.Over all art is dead and all that is left is the rotting corpse of mediocrity. Sound harsh? Yeah, maybe it is a bit. But I really, really hated the fact that this translation included "hashtag blessed."
3753648495	I have not read any of the multitude of translations of this epic poem. My rudimentary knowledge of the narrative comes from the film that was made about 15 years ago. I seem to remember Neil Gaiman’s name in the credits for writing and producing, but I may be wrong it was so long ago. Whether he had anything to do with the screenplay or not I remember enjoying it immensely.Without having read the original, I cannot compare this version to it, but the author, in a wonderful introduction, explains her intentions and reasons for how she has written this contemporary translation.A quick word or two about the poem.Hrothgar, king of the Danes has built this wonderful mead hall, in which he and all his warriors and kinsman, can get rolling drunk, reliving there halcyon years. However, before they can enjoy this wonderful mead hall, which seems to be known about far and wide, a huge troll like creature named Grendel turns up uninvited and proceeds to eat anybody he can get his hands on, stuffing the rest into a sack to save for later.Hrothgar and his men try but fail to slay this monstrous beast, and Hrothgar is forced to close the mead hall, despairingly boarding up the main entrance.This brings the hero of the poem, Beowulf, from across the sea, I told you that the mead hall had a reputation known far and wide. Beowulf and his trusty band of warriors promise to slay Grendel for Hrothgar. Beowulf in true heroic fashion defeats and slays Grendel with his bare hands.However just when you think all is well, along comes Grendel’s mother seething for vengeance. Grendel’s mother is every bit equal to Beowulf in the martial department and a truly epic battle between the two ensues. In a nutshell this is the story, there is a little more involving a dragon, but I do not want to spoil it for anybody, like me, who does not know the story.The poem itself is beautifully written. It flows along swiftly, and the author’s use of alliteration is phenomenal. Hearing this read aloud from a skilled orator would be magic.Maria Dahvana Headley has done a magnificent job of translating an epic poem written in Old English, giving it a cotemporary spin, and bringing it to everyday readers. Writing it in a beautiful style, that is a joy to read, even for those who very rarely read poetry. I know nothing about poetry and verse, but I do know that this is such an enjoyable read. As I said I cannot compare this to the original poem, I have a strong feeling I would struggle to even understand the first lines, but this translation is a wonderful read for everybody. 4 stars!One thing that did surprise me is that it is marketed as a feminist translation. But to me it still comes across as a very masculine poem. Not that there is anything wrong with this, I just struggled to find feminist undertones. I thought that perhaps we might find Grendel’s mother more humanized and grieving for her son. Very hard to tell with no knowledge of the original.Another point is that the language uses swearing, which I believe ties into the contemporary male braggadocio and adds a great deal to the tone that Headley is trying to achieve. Still if you are not a fan of “bad language” it may be an issue.Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher Scribe UK for the ARC
1805162659	My favorite version of this classic...very approachable and beautifully detailed. Not sure why this is listed as 'by Unknown' - this is the Seamus Heaney translation of this important classical work. This version was recommended to me by several friends (one an English major) as the best translation for general readers.
3743808653	Fantastico relato breve de las hazañas del heroe Beowulf.#25. Un libro que se publicó de forma anónima. Reto popsugar 2021
2753628372	There are many versions of Beowulf, but that translated by Seamus Heaney is the only one you should consider reading.I have always loved the idea of Beowulf. The earliest ever work in English, it lies on the very edge of our cultural memory. It was written by an early Christian, but records a previous, vanished world of myth and legend, of warriors, heroes and monsters. My first attempts to read Beowulf were not successful. It was forced on me at school – never a promising start. Later I bought various versions, inevitably written by tweed-clad professors of Anglo-Saxon linguistics. Under the dead hand of their dusty prose, the story lost all its spark. And then I found this version, written by Seamus Heaney, one of the greatest poets of our time, and suddenly the story came back to life. It is a narrative poem, so of course, it always needed a poet to translate it. Heaney has lovingly coaxed life back into the ancient words, restoring their drive and rhythm for a new audience. Full of battles and heroics, the values in the poem are ones we understand, but perhaps no longer share. It is also much more than just a fantastical romp. As the story progresses, Heaney brings out the wistfulness in the poem. Beowulf is the last of his kind, and with his passing his world of myth and legend will vanish too.
2429172300	The Book I Thought I Knew1. A Confession. This made a big splash it first came out in 2000. I bought it mostly for duty, but didn't read it. After all, I had studied the text in the original at University; I could even recite the opening. Surely I just needed a nudge, and it would all come back to me—so why bother with a translation?Oh, the arrogance! When I opened this, and saw the original text on the left-hand pages, I found I could not make it out at all; I had even been misremembering the opening lines for all those years. I realized, too, that my study in 1960 must have been confined to laborious parsing; it left me with almost no sense of Beowulf as a work of literature. And I was astonished at opening this translation by Seamus Heaney, a Nobel laureate no less, to discover how natural and easy to read it was, how unassuming, how little (in the decorative sense) "poetic"! Heaney explains all these things in a superb Introduction that manages to be scholarly and personal at the same time. But let me offer a few points of my own. 2. The Poem. The narrative core of the poem consists of three feats by the warrior hero Beowulf. A prince of the Geats (that is, from Southern Sweden), he sails to the aid of Hrothgar of Denmark, whose kingdom is being ravaged by a monster named Grendel. Beowulf determines to tackle the monster mano-a-mano, and deals it a mortal wound, tearing off an entire arm at the shoulder. But then he has to deal with Grendel's vengeful mother, an even more terrible fight, taking place partly underwater. He returns home and eventually becomes king of his people. But at the very end of his life, he faces one more challenge: to take on a dragon keeping guard over a golden hoard, whose fiery breath melts the sword in his hand.None of these episodes takes much more than 100 lines each of a 3,000-line poem, but the remainder is far more than filler; this is a saga that, at least in this translation, moves swiftly without any loss of interest. Part of it is the ritual celebration of heroism. Before and after each exploit there is a mighty feast in which gifts and compliments are exchanged. Beowulf precedes each with a "formal boast," his public commitment to the undertaking. There are countless stories of heroic deeds, and cautionary tales of people who did not show the chivalry appropriate to their rank. All of this builds up a picture of a pagan society, made up of smallish tribe-kingdoms held together by loyalty to their warrior lord, and defended by feats of arms and fragile treaties. Though much later, it is a far more primitive picture than that painted by Homer in the Iliad and closer to that familiar from Wagner's Ring.Only it is not pagan. One of the things that most surprised me on this reading was to discover how Christian it is. No matter how long the poet extols Beowulf's physical prowess, he will at some point defer to the power of God. "The truth is clear: / Almighty God rules over mankind / and always has." I suppose this comes from the fact that this is an old Nordic story being retold centuries later in Christianized England. This retelling may also explain the landscape of the poem, which is the familiar setting of crags, moors, and mountains later claimed by Wagner and Tolkien. But Denmark is an entirely flat country and Southern Sweden scarcely more rugged; the sea journey between them is scarcely an Odyssey 3. Language and Style. Most people can read the language of Chaucer, Middle English, with the aid of a glossary. But Old English is more than a simple step beyond; it is virtually a different tongue: Anglo-Saxon. Here is the opening of Beowulf: Hwæt we Gar-Dena in gear-dagumþeod-cyninga þrym gefrunon,hu ða æþelingas ellen fremedon. First, those extra characters: the "ash" [æ], pronounced like the "a" in "hat"; the "eth" [ð] and "thorn" [þ] representing different varieties of the "th" sound. Then the actual meanings; a literal translation might go like this:Hey! We Spear-Danes in year-dayspeople-kings glory have heard,how then princes courage performed.Or, more colloquially, "Hear the heroic deeds of Danish kings in days of yore!" Although it is a language of few words, Heaney aims for clarity rather than compression; here is how he begins: So. The Spear-Danes in days gone byand the kings who ruled them had courage and greatness.We have heard of those princes' heroic campaigns. Note that Heaney nonetheless follows the rhythmic structure of the Anglo-Saxon, with two stresses in each half of the line, separated by a significant caesura. He makes some attempt to follow the original's use of alliteration (Danes/days, kings/courage, heard/heroic), but never to the point of mannerism. The more recent translation by Stephen Mitchell that I shall look at in more detail below is also clear, but makes rather more of the alliteration: Of the strength of the Spear-Danes in days gone bywe have heard, and of their hero kings:the prodigious deeds those princes performed! Two other features of Old (as opposed to Middle) English are the total avoidance of Latinate words and the corresponding fondness for new words created as compounds of simple roots. Heaney's writing feels Northern rather than Latin, not least because the voice he says he was hearing in his head was a Northern Ireland one, but he does not completely avoid Latin derivations (ruled, courage, campaigns). In an amusing aside in his Introduction, he says that he was born to translate Beowulf because his own early work as a student was so heavily influenced by the archaizing style of Gerard Manley Hopkins that it was virtually Anglo-Saxon: Starling thatch-watched and sudden swallowStraight breaks to mud-nest, home-rest rafter. We can be glad that the poet largely shook those influences off, and resisted the temptation to return to them when faced with real Anglo-Saxon, although he takes occasional delight in the joys of coinage, as when Beowulf first announces his intent: "The leader of the troop unlocked his word-hoard." And his reticence at other times enables him to call upon the full panoply of sound when he needs it for special effect, as at the climax of Beowulf's declaration of intent: I will show him how Geats shape to killin the heat of battle. Then whoever wants tomay go bravely to mead, when morning light,scarfed in sun-dazzle, shines forth from the southand brings another daybreak to the world." Above all, it must not be forgotten that the Beowulf bard was an oral poet; these are lines written for declamation, not for reading. There are many videos on YouTube; I would recommend this one of the first few lines of the opening; it shows the text as it is read, and steers a good middle course between the conversational and the pretentious. But the greatest joy to be found on YouTube is Seamus Heaney reading his own translation. Do listen to it; this is a poet's voice, turning the apparent prose of the printed words into epic gold. 4. Two Translations. In the bookstore, looking for some of Heaney's other works, I came upon a newer translation of Beowulf by Stephen Mitchell (Yale, 2017). It is equally well produced, also bilingual, and seems equally impressive at brief glance. However, I took images of a couple of passages that had impressed me in the Heaney, thinking to make a direct comparison. One is where Grendel first approaches the hall:HEANEY:In off the moors, down through the mist-bandsGod-cursed Grendel came greedily loping.The bane of the race of men roamed forth,hunting for a prey in the high hall.Under the cloud-murk, he moved towards ituntil it shone above him, a sheer keepof fortified gold.MITCHELL:Then up from the moor, in a veil of mist,Grendel came slouching. He bore God's wrath.The evil brute intended to trapand eat some human in the great hall.Under the clouds he crept, untilhe saw the mead-hall, glistening with gold.The second comes twenty lines later, when the monster claims his first victim; don't we always have to see some bit-player getting killed before the hero goes into action? This time, let's reverse the translations:MITCHELL: Beowulf watchesto see where the killer would strike first.And the demon did not delay; in a flashhe lunged and seized a warrior sleeping,tore him apart, gnawed bones, drank bloodgushing from veins, gorged on gobbetsof flesh, and soon had devoured the victimutterly, even his hands and feet.HEANEY: Mighty and canny,Hygelac's kinsman was keenly watchingfor the first move the monster would make.Nor did the creature keep him waitingbut struck suddenly and started in;he grabbed and mauled a man on his bench,bit into his bone-lappings, bolted down his bloodand gorged on him in lumps, leaving the bodyutterly lifeless, eaten uphand and foot.Is there much difference between them? I would gladly read either, and might well buy the Mitchell too. He is certainly the more immediate; there is something splendid about "tore him apart, gnawed bones, drank blood gushing from veins, gorged on gobbets of flesh." Heaney can be as strong; writing about the monsters in his Introduction, he says:Grendel comes alive in the reader's imagination as a kind of dog-breath in the dark, a fear of collision with some hard-boned and immensely strong android frame, a mixture of Caliban and hoplite. And while his mother too has a definite brute-bearing about her, a creature of slouch and lunge on land if seal-swift in the water, she nevertheless retains a certain non-strangeness.But this is in prose. In the poem, he is more careful, I think, to respond to its antiquity. He is the only one to retain the mid-line caesura; Mitchell rides right over it. He seems to relish the compound words like "mist-bands," "God-cursed," "cloud-murk," and "bone-lappings." Each one strikes the ear with a jolt of strangeness that nudge us back in time to the Dark Ages where the pagan order jostles with the new. Not every reader will like that, but especially after reading his Introduction, I realize that it is this that impresses me the most. For Heaney, it is the antiquity of the work and the challenge of bringing it into our world that speaks to his personal development as a poet, to the history of his race as an Irishman, and to our moral journey as a civilization. As he says in his epigraph, in his own poetry now, gnomic and pithy: And now this is 'an inheritance'—Upright, rudimentary, unshiftably plankedIn the long ago, yet willable forward Again and again and again.
2422230189	A friend of mine loaned me her copy of Burton Raffel's translation of Beowulf. I'd been listening to Seamus Heaney's Beowulf with my kids and was surprised by the Christian themes I heard. My friend thought the introductory essay in this edition was worth reading and she was right.But, then, I went ahead and read the whole thing. Because the kids and I had been listening slowly as I drove them places, I sometimes missed parts and was a little lost during storytelling or other conversations that referred to previous actions or people; reading it helped a lot.Having never read it until now, the events and speed of them surprised me. The plot points carried the story, certainly, but the descriptions of Beowulf were fascinating to me, especially lines 2177-2183So Edgetho's son proved himself,Did as a famous soldier must doIf glory is what he seeks: not killing his comradesIn drunken rages, his heart not savage,But guarding God's gracious gift, his strength, Using it only in war, and then using itBravely. While we don't see Beowulf's whole life, we see - or hear about - five important episodes where he used his bravery rightly against wickedness and darkness. We see him judge rightly on issues of diplomacy. We see him acting as a king even unto his own death to protect those who were unprotected.I really enjoyed Beowulf and will enjoy listening to the sections in our audio with my children to hear them a second time.
4223360787	Returning back home as a hero, Beowulf soon becomes a king of Geatland. The realm prospers for fifty years until one servant manages to make the dragon angry at humankind. The servant steals a cup from the dragon’s cave which causes the latter to come out bursting with rage and murdering anything that stands in his path.Beowulf takes on the dragon alone as his men flee for their lives. Only one warrior comes to help the hero when he is in desperate need. Two men fight heroically and slay the dragon, ending the threat to Geats. However, Beowulf is badly wounded and dies shortly after. The whole nation mourns its king and constructs a barrow to remind themselves and their ancestors of a great sacrifice by a legendary warrior and a just king.
3050416205	Though the story itself is exactly what you'd expect, I enjoyed imagining myself in the place of an Anglo-Saxon listening with anticipation to heroic tales of his homeland. This edition places the original text side-by-side with the modern English translation, allowing one to experience something of the original, abrupt cadence, the language twisted into alliteration (so as to be more easily memorised in a tongue not naturally conducive to rhyming), and to discover those surprisingly common, still half-intelligible words that survive in our language today. A lovely afternoon read.
443842596	Beowulf is the rare book that is just as fascinating as a historical document as a work of literature. Explaining its appeal as a story is easy. We have a hero battling monsters, told in stirring verse. Yes, there are tangents and digressions, which one would expect in a story from a time when poetry was used as collective memory, and when attention spans were far longer. Even so, anyone with a liking for action movies can easily enjoy the poem—especially if you read Seamus Heaney’s translation, which is so well-done that I hardly felt that I was missing anything. Time went by, the boat was on the water,in close under the cliffs.Men climbed eagerly up the gangplank,sand churned in surf, warriors loadeda cargo of weapons, shining war-gearin the vessel’s hold, then heaved out,away with a will in their wood-wreathed ships.Over the waves, with the wind behind herand foam at her neck, she flew like a birduntil her curved prow had covered the distanceand on the following day, at the due hour,those seafarers sighted land,sunlit cliffs, sheer cragsand looming headlands, the landfall they sought. It does not take any readerly effort to get swept up in such a story. But once you put the book down, you realize just how remarkable and enigmatic such a poem is. Is it the product of an oral pagan tradition, later written down by Christian scribes? Or is the poem an entirely literate production? In any case, how can we account for the odd mixture of pagan and Christian elements in the poem? What sort of relation does this Old English story have with German, Norman, Icelandic, or Irish mythology? How much of the story (if any) is based on real history?As an ignorant layman, I was struck by how much this poem resembled the Poetic Edda, not only in content (heroes battling monsters) but in form (specifically, the use of alliteration and kennings, such as “word-hoard” or “whale-road”). However, there is a definite addition of Christianity which is totally lacking in the Norse poems, and which often seemed rather discordant with the tale of bellicose warriors slaying dragons. To me at least, it seems that the passages invoking Christian beliefs could be neatly removed without affecting the meat of the poem, which makes me suspect that they are a later addition. What is more, as both Beowulf and the Poetic Edda resemble the Iliad in using formulaic phrases and a kind of additive method of composition (wherein sections are tacked on one after another), it seems quite plausible to me that it was once an oral poem that somehow got transcribed.Even if these suppositions are correct, however, it still leaves much unexplained. For example, what did the Christian scribes think about these pagan poems? In other words, why would a monk (if a monk did do it) bother to write this down? And how exactly was this poem transcribed in the first place?—by an oral poet who learned to write, or by a patient scribe who transcribed a recitation? Any way you consider it, the survival of such a poem is mysterious and improbable. Though I bet it helped that it is such a rich, exciting, and eloquent piece of literature. Perhaps aesthetics really can triumph in the end.
587043758	Who am I to review a classic of English literature? I am equally ill-qualified to evaluate the brilliant translation by Nobel-prize-winner Seamus Heaney, except to say that I thoroughly enjoyed both. Mr Heaney's translation enables the contemporary reader to appreciate the strength of the original Anglo-Saxon. As much as I might like to read the original, I think I'd have an easier go of it reading a contemporary work in Icelandic.
4487192820	I meni samom je malo nejasno šta se to dogodilo da toliko uživam u svakom slovcetu Beovulfa. Herojski etos i epski svet nisu mi bliski. Ipak, neka magija prepoznavanja se probudila, oživevši avanturu staru više od hiljadu godina. Osetio sam da ovde titra nešto iskonski zanimljivo, nešto što me se, na neobičan način, direktno tiče.Srećan susret sa tekstom se dogodio sasvim izvesno i zbog zaista sadržajnih i korisnih uvoda i komentara Ivanke Kovačević, koja je knjigu i prevela. I što se prevoda tiče, verovatno bi neko mogao da se pobuni što je u pitanju prozni, a ne prevod u stihu, međutim, uložena briga o jeziku prevoda je takva da mislim da neutrališe bilo kakve kritike. Uostalom, ko hoće, neka pokuša da sam prevede ep u stihu, poštujući anglosaksonsku akcenatsku aliteraciju, keninge, inverzije i parafrastičko ponavljanje. Ivanka Kovačević nam je odmereno raskrčila tu drevnu, severnjačku književnoteorijsku džunglu, ostavivši da suština blista. (Dobri prevodi su privilegija i retka usluga čitaocima i malo ko razmišlja o tome kako prevod može biti znatno prohodniji, pa i ubedljiviji od originala. Ključno je tu pitanje mere – osetiti koliko nešto može da se preformuliše, pojednostavi, uočiti šta je srž dela i ne ispuštati je.)A šta se uopšte zna o Beovulfu? I malo i mnogo toga.Etimološki – Beovulf je sklop pčele (beo) u vuka (vulf). Ukoliko mu dodamo i neverovatno snažne, medveđe šake, koje mogu da ubiju i ogromne nemani poput Grendela, animalna komponentna Beovulfovog bića biće još izraženija. Međutim, nigde nije istaknuto kako on zapravo izgleda. Namesto detaljnih opisa imamo u više navrata neverovatno važan, pa i spasonosan – pancir. Mreža alkica pancira je kao maska: krijući pokazuje. Određen više onim što čini nego onim što jeste – Beovulf je tako dostojan branilac sveta kome pripada. Tako je glavna uloga ovog Geata (Gota) na danskom dvoru, biti, u borbi sa silama, zaštitinik pravednosti epskog sveta.Beovulfovi suparnici su ne manje zanimljivi. Tako već spomenuti Grendel, otelotvorenje užasa koje je duže od decenije noćima smrskavalo danske dvorjane, nije ni upola staršan koliko njegova majka. (Iver ne pada daleko od klade.) Gnevna zbog smrti sina, odlazi u osvetu iz koje Beovulf jedva izvlači živu glavu, bivajući zarobljen u „toplom, porodičnom gnezdašcetu” Grendela i majke u vidu močvare sa podzemnom pećinom. (I mada su pejzaži u spevu rudimentarni, posebno treba obratiti pažnju na opis močvare: vatra na vodi, okolo šume pod injem – da jelen ovde zaluta bežeći od lovaca, radije bi se prepustio, nego ušao u vodu.) Ipak, za Beovulfa će biti fatalan tek, nakon mnogo godina, susret sa zmajem koji čuva zakopano blago i taj prizor borbe je zaista nešto posebno. (Inače, slatko je, a čak i malo smešno iz današnje perspektive, što su svima u spevu štitovi drveni, te svako bljuvanje vatre predstavlja posebnu nepriliku. Izuzetno je zanimljivo kako su se realije reflektovale na delo – od dekoracije dvora, preko oružja i odevanja, sve do sahranjivanja.)Intrigantni su i epizodni likovi – od hvalisavog, sujetnog Unferta, preko spominjanja skopova (narodnih pevača sličnih skaldima) do Vitlafa, Beovulfovog rođaka koji mu je hrabro priskočio u pomoć. Ili, iako je u pitanju nesumnjivo patrijarhalni, muški svet, horizont ženskih likova, koji, uprkos tome što nije razvijen, predstavlja izuzetno podsticajnu temu za domaštavanje. Kao i još mnogo toga ovde, a trenutno mi je posebno na umu veza „Beovulfa” sa različitim tradicijama: od islandske (na umu mi je moja omiljena „Saga o Njalu”), preko „Pesme o Nibelunzima”, sve do, što da ne, naše narodne književnosti.Vuče me nešto na sever, šta ću.
217095640	This book is amazing, it is before medieval, it is the dark ages. The book was composed by an unknown author marking the beginning of English Literature but it was recited 300 hundred years before it was officially written. At first I believed that Beowulf was undoubtedly manifested in vainglory and narcissism in the tale which is considered to be a deadly sin but then I realized that Beowulf symbolized God's great power through the Christian warrior. This legend describes a gruesome monster Grendel that has bipolar rampages; his demonic succubus mother and lastly a fiery dragon. I also believed that Grendel existed because of the hypocrisy of the Englishman. The "zealot" kings and their concubines are a perfect example of living a life of sin. The mead halls were full of prostitution, sin and perdition thus it was damned for years and terrorized with such a demon as Grendel. The English would also try to invoke or summon the Dark Prince for help various times instead of depend on God's help.
4126550383	برای ورود به هابیت و ارباب حلقه‌ها این کتاب و پیش زمینه لازم بود(برای خودم حداقل)،اما اشعار بخش پایانی کتاب،مخصوصا درخت چلیپا و دریانورد واقعا زیباست.
1658416692	Like most American high school students in my generation, I was exposed to a discussion of this epic Old English poem, and required to read a few excerpts from it (in modern English translation). But I'd never read the whole thing, even as a home-schooling parent teaching English Literature to my own kids. However, I do have a serious interest in history and literature, and in Scandinavian studies, Dark Ages antiquities, and folk culture; so this was always on my to-read shelf, and when a Goodreads group I'm in recently picked it as a common read, I joined in. I chose the translation done in 1923 by William Ellery Leonard of the Univ. of Wisconsin. Seamus Heaney's much newer translation is the most popular one on Goodreads; but while I guessed that his version would be more “poetic,” I thought Leonard's would be closer to the original. (This review draws both on introductory material and comments by Leonard and on the Wikipedia article, here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beowulf --though readers should be warned that the latter's summary of the poem contains spoilers.) This poem survived in written form in only a single manuscript copy, the Nowell Codex, now in the British Museum, dated on the basis of orthography to around 1000. It has no title in the manuscript, but has come to be known by the name of its main character, Beowulf, a prince of the Geats, a Scandinavian tribe living in southern Sweden in late antiquity and the early Middle Ages. The story-line mainly relates Beowulf's adventures as a young man coming to the aid of the Danish king Hrothgar in fighting Grendel, a vaguely-described cannibalistic monster, and Grendel's mother, followed fifty years later by the aged Beowulf's battle with a “dragon.” Leonard dates the actual written composition around 750 A.D., but judges it to be based on much older folk compositions transmitted orally. The Codex was apparently acquired by antiquarian and book collector Sir Robert Bruce Cotton from 16th-century British scholar Laurence Nowell; it's known to have been in Cotton's library in the mid-1600s. In 1731, it was damaged in a fire, and parts of it have crumbled since then; this has made some parts of the text difficult to read (and some of it was covered up at the edges by a modern re-binding); this has required scholars to do some guesswork in reconstructing the text.The original doesn't rhyme, but Leonard mostly makes the couplets rhyme to convey a feeling of poetry in modern English, if he can do it without violating the sense of the original. (There are a few lines where that's not possible.) He does try to preserve the meter, which is characteristic of all early Germanic/Scandinavian poetry. In the original, each line is divided by a marked pause in the middle, and there are four "beats," or accented syllables, to each half line; it's designed to be chanted or sung aloud in time to harp music. Also, each pair of half-lines begins with the same letter or sound (alliteration), though Leonard usually wasn't able to preserve that feature in the translation. (He does make extensive use of alliteration, as does the original.) As he states in the preface, he intended the translation for use in undergraduate college or secondary school classes, or for interested general readers. His helpful 9-page introductory chapter (with a brief bibliography for further study, though of course a number of more recent books would be available today) doesn't presuppose any specialized knowledge and avoids literary jargon and technical material on textual criticism and philology. In this version, the text itself runs a bit over 136 pages, but some of that is taken up with Leonard's own italicized summaries and comments on each of the numbered “fyttes,” or sections, in the original. His aim in the translation was to make the poem readable for modern lay readers, while preserving the sense and some of the actual poetic qualities and “feel” of the original.Being completely illiterate in Old English (which is really a dialect of Old German), I can't judge the fidelity to the original here. But I would say it does have a poetic quality, and would probably be experienced most effectively (at least by someone who's not, like me, tone-deaf), if it were sung aloud. Despite its relatively short length, though, it's definitely not a quick or easy read. The sentence structure has to be complex, in order to fit it to the meter; and the vocabulary used, though in “modern” English, is still often very archaic, partly to preserve the medieval flavor and also reflecting, where possible, actual words that are of Anglo-Saxon derivation. As in the original, metaphors are used frequently (the sea, for instance, can be called the “whale-road” or the “gannet's bath”). Pacing is slow, with preliminary accounts of Hrothgar's ancestry, the building of his hall Heorot where much of the action takes place, and much attention to the characters' travels, feastings and speeches between the action. There are also frequent digressions to give accounts of other adventures of people marginally related to the story, or in some cases not related at all. It also helps considerably if the reader has some prior familiarity with Viking cultural patterns and customs from previous reading (which luckily I did), though Leonard supplies some information in his occasional footnotes. Personally, I did find it an interesting read, but as much for learning about the history behind the poem and about its literary features as for the story itself. (I already knew the basic summary of the plot before opening the book.) As a tale of action-adventure, the action parts don't take up as much of the text as you'd think.For myself, part of the interest here was in thinking about what sort of literature this actually is, and what (if any) relation the events might have to reality. Leonard regards it as make-believe for entertainment purposes, comparing it to Jack and the Beanstalk and the Paul Bunyan stories (though the later are literary creations with no basis in any oral tradition). I'm not a folklore scholar, and my reading in medieval literature and secondary discussions of it has been scanty. To the best of my knowledge of the Jack Tales (which I've read), however, and folk and fairy tales generally, they were transmitted in prose, not poetry, and lacked any actual chronological reference points or allusions to real-life people. That's interesting, because though Beowulf himself isn't attested in any other document, a number of the people mentioned in this poem are also mentioned in historical sources for this era, as are specific clans/tribes and battles referred to (Wikipedia provides a long but partial list), including the hero's uncle, Hrethel, king of the Geats, who died in a raid on the Frisians –also referred to here, more than once-- in 521. The named individuals in the side stories are all referenced as if they were actual people the listeners would know about, not imaginative creations; Hrothgar doesn't reign in “a land far, far away,” but in Denmark. (Even Leonard concedes that “perhaps” Beowulf was a real person, though he doubts that his exploits here are factual.) The form and content of this material is more similar to the Icelandic sagas than to the Jack Tales. IMO, there's good reason to believe that poetic sagas of this sort were intended to recount, for posterity, events that the scops/skalds believed to be basically historical, even though they include legendary embellishments and invented dialogue.Obviously, I don't believe Grendel and his mom were direct descendants of Cain. But their historic referents may have been descendants of the pre-Viking inhabitants of Scandinavia, about whom, save for the ancestors of the Finns and the Sami, we know relatively little. If any of these survived into the 6th century. they would have lived in places not frequented by the later comers; some of them may have practiced ritual cannibalism of slain enemies. (Likewise, I don't believe Grendel was rendered immune to weapons by magic; but the dried mushrooms the Viking Berserkers used later to produce battle frenzy that made them temporarily indifferent to pain and the effects of most wounds were native to the region.) And while a flying and fire-breathing reptile in 6th-century Sweden is an impossibility, my long residence in Appalachia has made me aware of the habit of poisonous snakes (with attested lengths of 9 ft. or more in some cases) of moving into hollowed-out places underground, like the barrow described in this poem. It's not possible be dogmatic about it, but positing a possible factual basis along these lines for the events related here is not inherently implausible.This edition is illustrated with four black-and-white photographs of relevant Viking artifacts, etc. It also has a glossary (which I consulted a lot!), a black-and-white map, and other supplemental material.
3506887875	☆3.5☆I have finally read 𝐵𝑒𝑜𝑤𝑢𝑙𝑓. To be honest, I would not normally pick up epics or poems, let alone lengthy ones, but I had to do it for academic purposes. First and foremost, I had encountered two main issues: 1) The translation.2) The names. Concerning the first one, I made the mistake of reading Francis Gummere's translation of the work. It was difficult to keep up with, and I had to use google on many occasions to understand what was going on. As a result, I decided to start over and pick up Seamus Heaney's translation, which I found much more appealing. As for the second one, it was the most irritating. The names were so confusing and almost impossible to memorize. Had I not used a family tree from google, I would have definitely missed a lot of details. The work itself has what you would expect from any epic. The events affect a grand scale; you see whole nations involved. Written in an elevated style, the epic sheds the light on the heroic adventures and achievements of Beowulf, the Hercules of his age. He is, of course, essentially noble, brave, and blessed with supernatural powers as we see when he fights Grendel barehandedly. He is also the center of attention; the one who everyone turns to at times of crisis, which is evident when he is beseeched to deal with Grendel's mother, as well as when his people expect him to put an end to the dragon's terror at the end. Furthermore, as in any epic, the hierarchical structure is evident. People of high birth and positions appear larger than life. Also, outward appearances matter. If you want to earn others' respect, make sure you appear good. “𝑴𝒐𝒔𝒕 𝒈𝒓𝒂𝒄𝒊𝒐𝒖𝒔 𝑯𝒓𝒐𝒕𝒉𝒈𝒂𝒓, 𝒅𝒐 𝒏𝒐𝒕 𝒓𝒆𝒇𝒖𝒔𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒎, 𝒃𝒖𝒕 𝒈𝒓𝒂𝒏𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒎 𝒂 𝒓𝒆𝒑𝒍𝒚. 𝑭𝒓𝒐𝒎 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒊𝒓 𝒂𝒓𝒎𝒔 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒂𝒑𝒑𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒎𝒆𝒏𝒕, 𝒕𝒉𝒆𝒚 𝒂𝒑𝒑𝒆𝒂𝒓 𝒘𝒆𝒍𝒍 𝒃𝒐𝒓𝒏 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒘𝒐𝒓𝒕𝒉𝒚 𝒐𝒇 𝒓𝒆𝒔𝒑𝒆𝒄𝒕...”Aside from that, it is worth mentioning that most women play no role other than serving men drinks. Grendel's mother is an exception, but that does not make her stand out since women in epics usually fall into three categories: The ones who show the epic hero the way, the ones who act as obstacles for the epic hero, and the ones who do nothing significant at all. So, if you are a woman and are not assigned to read it, then you should not. It is not worth it. Personally, the part that I liked the most was the last one; when Beowulf fights the dragon and then Wiglaf joins in to help his king, in addition to the funeral which closed the curtains on a comfortless future for the Geats. Though it was spoiled for me, it doubtlessly had loads of emotions. 𝐁𝐞𝐨𝐰𝐮𝐥𝐟 𝐯𝐬. 𝐆𝐫𝐞𝐧𝐝𝐞𝐥, 𝐛𝐲 𝐂𝐡𝐫𝐢𝐬 𝐁𝐞𝐚𝐭𝐫𝐢𝐜𝐞 𝗙𝗮𝘃𝗼𝗿𝗶𝘁𝗲 𝗾𝘂𝗼𝘁𝗲/𝗹𝗶𝗻𝗲:“𝑨𝒏𝒚𝒐𝒏𝒆 𝒘𝒊𝒕𝒉 𝒈𝒖𝒎𝒑𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒂 𝒔𝒉𝒂𝒓𝒑 𝒎𝒊𝒏𝒅 𝒘𝒊𝒍𝒍 𝒕𝒂𝒌𝒆 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒎𝒆𝒂𝒔𝒖𝒓𝒆 𝒐𝒇 𝒕𝒘𝒐 𝒕𝒉𝒊𝒏𝒈𝒔: 𝒘𝒉𝒂𝒕'𝒔 𝒔𝒂𝒊𝒅 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒘𝒉𝒂𝒕'𝒔 𝒅𝒐𝒏𝒆.”
37569934	Update:Really liked Heaney's translation. He doesn't resort to archaisms to convey atmosphere, opting instead for plainspoken modern English - formal in formal passages and casual in casual passages. Rhythms and poetic constructions aren't "lost in translation", and while I'm sure there are decisions worth quibbling over, I doubt the English-speaking world will require an updated translation of Beowulf for a couple generations yet.===Previous review of another edition:Go to Project Gutenberg and download the audio book from Libra Vox. It's free and hearing it read is unbeatable.Seriously. Go now.
2094098900	2 StarsRe-readI had to re-read this for class - and it's safe to say that I disliked this as much as I did 3 years ago. For an epic poem, it stays true to its roots of heroism and whatnot, but it's not something that interests me. However, I do appreciate the history that comes with it, considering the fact that it was the first epic-poem written. Yet, those things can't convince me to give this more than 2 stars. It's a pain to read.Sorry, Beowulf. I hope to never read you again.
513075534	Quite a heroic epic, full of stories of feuds, loyalty, treachery, bravery, revenge, monsters & treasure. Surprisingly, I really liked it! I read the translation by Michael Alexander which made the poetry and story flow freely.
2485529599	I do not have the energy to explain why I hated this so much. It just sucked.
2956558696	My Litsy post shortly after finishing: The end of my little peak in Anglo-Saxon lit. Shorter than I expected, less poetic than I expected too (per Heaney‘s translation). I tried to slow down and absorb it a bit, but the story just rushes through making quick work of Grendel and Mom and focusing really on the end of the Geats after Beowulf‘s death fighting a dragon in old age. Some really great touches zoomed by in a blink. Someday I should reread with some reflection. Some day. Afraid I don't have much to add. Wikipedia tells me the Geats didn't end like the poem suggests. They did become part of Sweden, but the nature of the blending of the Swedes and Geats is left up to conjecture. The status of the Geats c750, for example, is uncertain. They may have been independent or may have been ruled by Swedes, or may have united themselves with the Swedes for protection from Danes and other invaders. But then an academic Beowulf website says confidently, "As the poem suggests, the Geats appear to have been conquered and disappeared into history."-----------------------------------------------42. Beowulf : a new verse translation by Seamus Heaneypublished: 2000 (original written c750)format: 213 page paperback, alternating Old and current English plus 34 page introductionacquired: December from a Half-Price Booksread: Aug 28 – Sep 8time reading: 5 hr 54 min, 2.1 min/pagerating: 4
1976020771	Nazmi Ağıl’ın yine harika çevirisiyle Türkçeye kavuşturulan başka bir İngiliz edebiyatı yapıtaşı "Beowulf" efsanesi Antik Yunan ve Roma destansı şiirlerine benzer yapısıyla kesinlikle okunması gereken edebi eserlerden biri. Danların başına bela olmuş canavar Grendel ve onun annesini yenen Beowulf’un mücadelesini konu alan meşhur Anglo Sakson efsanesinin ikinci bölümünde ise Tolkien’e ve daha bir sürü fantastik edebiyat örneğine ilham olmuş Beowulf ve ejderha mücadelesi anlatılıyor. İlk sayfasından son sayfasına kadar eğlendirmeyi başaran destan tabii ki Virgil ve Homeros’un eserlerinin seviyelerine ulaşamıyor ama ana karakteriyle Hercules ya da Theseus efsanelerinden geri kalmıyor. 15.02.2017İstanbul, TürkiyeAlp Turguthttp://www.filmdoktoru.com/kitap-labo...
1282870943	The original fantasy epic21 May 2015 I am surprised that it has taken me so long to get around to reading this book, particularly since it isn't all that long, and also that I have been a long time fan of the fantasy epic. In fact this was one of Tolkien's major inspirations for his Lord of the Rings trilogy (and I do emphasise one, since he drew on lots of sources in crafting his fantasy epic – in particular the Nibelungenlied). Anyway, as I suggested this is pretty much your typical fantasy novel. In fact when you read about how bards will sing about a hero's exploits, this is the type of song that they would end up singing (and the greater the hero, or should I say the greater the story, then the longer the song will remain in the consciousness of the listeners). Mind you, the story itself is pretty basic: a monster comes and terrorises a king and eats his men during a banquet so the King asks for help and along comes Beowulf, cuts off the monster's arm, and leaves it for dead. They all then get together and start celebrating Beowulf's bravery in defeating the monster – bare handed nonetheless – when the monster's mother comes along and gatecrashes the party, namely because she is really upset that somebody went and ripped the arm off of her child (as you would expect from any mother). Anyway Beowulf then kills the mother and becomes king. Mind you, the poem (or should I say song because the bards had been singing this for centuries, telling everybody the story of Beowulf's bravery) doesn't end there because Beowulf then goes off to fight a dragon, but this time he isn't so lucky because even though he manages to land a killing blow upon the dragon, the dragon replies in kind resulting in Beowulf not surviving the battle. So, there we have it, a guy goes out, kills a monster, has a party, kills a monster, so on and so forth. Actually, that sounds like your everyday Dungeons and Dragons game – you know, enter a room, kill the monster in there, take all the treasure, and then go into the next room and do it all over again. Granted, there is this part of the game where you are supposed to role play your character, but on the other hand there isn't anything all that wrong with the good old fashioned dungeon crawl (though if you wanted a real dungeon crawl there are plenty of computer games that offer just that experience). The other thing was that for some strange reason I thought the monster (that happens to have the name Grendal, though his mother doesn't have a name – she is only known as Grendal's mother) was like a hippopotamus, though I have no real reason why I would think such things. As it turns out Grendal is more like a troll, though I think he would be a troll in the vein of the Three Billy Goat's Gruff type of troll rather than the Dungeons & Dragons type of troll which I sometimes wonder who actually came up with the idea, and what drugs he (or she) was smoking at the time they decided to settle on this rather bizarre creature. Anyway a troll is probably more appropriate since you do get the impression that it has some form of intelligence (though not all that much), and it does break into the king's hall to carry away his men. So, this is another of the handful of true epics, though it is nowhere near as long as the Odyssey or the Iliad. However, both of those other ones (as well as The Song of Roland and the Nibelungenlied) were all originally sung and also passed down by word of mouth. It is also interesting to note that these songs are songs of the deeds of heroes that have been passed down from generation to generation, though it does make me wonder what causes the actions of one particular hero to be passed through the generations to eventually be written down, and others to fade into insignificance. Considering, at least with our western culture, the bulk of these stories came from the Greeks, though we do seem to have a smattering from the Norse regions (such as Beowulf and the Nibelungenlied). In the end I guess it is probably luck, or more likely popularity. I guess it is like these days – popular books get reprinted and popular movies get replays. Those movies that flopped generally pass away into obscurity (though some of them, for some bizarre reason, go on to become cult classics). I guess it is the same with epic poems – the popular ones continue to be told, and continue to be passed down, while the ones people simply don't like (like the story of how Wulfgung was chased around the paddock by a rabid cow, but managed to overcome it) get forgotten.
3641238266	ARC received in exchange for an honest reviewWe all know a boy can't daddy until his daddy's dead.I'll admit this is my first time reading a translation of Beowulf, but I think I picked a good one to start with. This reads like a labour of love from Maria Dahvana Headley, and a lot of thought has been put into the translation and how the story is presented to the reader. In the introduction, Headley states that Beowulf is a poem between brothers, commrades and close friends all trying to outdo each other with tales of daring over many, many pints. It's a poem that shouts from the rooftops, mixing every emotion possible within its verses - and I think Headley goes a great job at showcasing this. It uses a mix of contemporary slang (never did I expect to find phrases like 'hashtag blessed' and 'brass balls' in a classics translation) and classic phrases and literary methods to maintain the feel of the story and it's setting, yet making it accessible and fresh. The use of alliteration that is repeated throughout is especially clever, helping the text to flow and linking the story together. I also love the way Headley has interpreted Grendel's mother as the true warrior single mother she is. She's easily a match for Beowulf. He just had luck in his side. I will say that the story itself isn't amazing, and there's a lot of repetition as we hear a story once and then it's repeated again to another group of people. However, I can appreciate this for the important text it is, and the seeds of influence it's had on other classic fantasy stories. This is a fantastic translation for those new to the story of Beowulf, and opens the door to a text that might otherwise feel intimidating.
4422898322	This is one of my favorite epic poems. It was written in 700-750 CE.They do not know the author. This is the most translated of all litterature.Beowulf takes place in Denmark where the good King is threatened by an evil monster. Beowulf a young warier who owes the good King a favor attacks the monster taking one of his arms. After a great battle insues where dragons and spirits are ingaged. Beowulf has inspired a mirriad of authors including The Lord of The Rings trilogy.I recommend this to all.If you are interested in epic poetry, come join my group entitled, Epic Poems Read Along.We read an epic poem a month and discuss it.
5470455875	My video review can be watched on my BookTube channel linked below.Beowulf In April | Week 2 | Michael Alexander Translationhttps://youtu.be/NNJF4H3BJI4
164122839	Edit Oct 12, 2024 - It is time for re-read of Beowulf! I am currently reading John Gardner’s Grendel. While I remember the outline of this poem-story today, I can’t pull the entirety of the poem back into my mind. I will be picking this book up again soon, after finishing Grendel! In the meantime, I have edited this old review slightly.My 2009 review:I get all shook and amazed when I read stories that are from the past, millennia in time from our present, but yet they still reflect similarities of culture to our present as well as those that are also sometimes very alien. To me these early poem-stories like this one, Beowulf, are as earthshaking as it would be digging up a Martian artifact on Mars which resembles human artifacts on Earth, predating our civilization. When the translator is a scholar, in this case Seamus Heaney, as well as a master of languages, it barely matters if the story doesn’t affect me with the emotional force of a modern English work written in our customary thriller writing techniques. The impact for me comes from reading a story that's maybe a few thousand years old giving a clear look at human creativity and human imagination and human life of several millennium ago. These epic poem-stories reveal Human nature hasn't changed one single synapse or axion of brain development in millennia. Our basic impulses, motivations, politics and faults would easily be understood by a stone-age man apparently, if our cultural motivations were to be stripped of all trappings of technological progress in explaining us to this hypothetical caveman, based on these ancient poem-stories. The first time I read these relics of early literature (in my twenties) I realized how little I knew of how our current culture's usual propaganda of grand social progress may hide the total lack of actual spiritual progress. As a liberal progressive I was quite disheartened. Am I joking? No.I have copied the book blurb:”Composed toward the end of the first millennium, Beowulf is the elegiac narrative of the adventures of Beowulf, a Scandinavian hero who saves the Danes from the seemingly invincible monster Grendel and, later, from Grendel's mother. He then returns to his own country and dies in old age in a vivid fight against a dragon. The poem is about encountering the monstrous, defeating it, and then having to live on in the exhausted aftermath. In the contours of this story, at once remote and uncannily familiar at the beginning of the twenty-first century, Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney finds a resonance that summons power to the poetry from deep beneath its surface. Drawn to what he has called the "four-squareness of the utterance" in Beowulf and its immense emotional credibility, Heaney gives these epic qualities new and convincing reality for the contemporary reader.”
241882932	We want Tolkien! We want Tolkien!I demand that this be made a top priority, instead of spending millions trashing good books by making movies of them.The coolest thing about Beowulf was the tracing of Tolkien's imaginative journey as I read it. Maybe someday I would like to write a short review story on the morphing of Beowulf into a hobbit...
462613304	DUDE KILLS MONSTER THEN KILLS MONSTER'S MOM
3594463371	Maria Dahvana Headley’s opening salvo in her translation of Beowulf: A New Translation is the word “Bro!” This sets the stage for an irreverent, rollicking, electrifying, and astonishing translation unlike any we have seen before. Headley has studied the poem extensively. Her goal was to render the poem as close to the spirit of its original form as possible. As she says in her extensive introduction, “The original reads, at least in some places, like Old English freestyle, and in others like a wedding toast of a drunk uncle who’s suddenly remembered a poem he memorized at boarding school.” She captures the rollicking spirit of the poem admirably, generating a work that is not so much a translation but a re-creation. Her goal was to create “a text that is as bubbly and juicy as I think it ought to feel.”Headley smashes the sedate lines of previous translations with flashes of lightning. As she explains in her introduction, some of the Old English words are difficult to pin down in modern English. Just as previous translators have had to interpret and take liberties with the wording, Headley has had to do the same. Whenever possible, she opts for wording that conforms with the original temperament of the poem. For example, the word “hwaet,” which has been variously translated as “Listen,” “Hark,” “Lo,” she translates as “Bro!” She conceives it as the poet’s attempt to capture audience attention and as a form of masculinist coded language. She punctuates traditional, stately passages of sublime poetry with the occasional four-letter word and phrases currently inhabiting social media. For example, Wealhtheow admires Beowulf’s “brass balls.” Treasure is now “bling.” The watchman in Denmark initially confronts Beowulf with, “There’s a dress code! You’re denied.” Headley perceives the narrator as “an old-timer at the end of the bar, periodically pounding his glass and demanding another.” He shouts to be heard in a mead hall of rowdy men falling over each other in a drunken stupor. He interrupts himself, comments on the action, engages in foreshadowing, and addresses the audience directly to retain attention. She argues his language is laced with satire as he interrogates definitions of masculinity with its concomitant heroic boasts and chest-thumping. One of the more interesting aspects of Headley’s translation lies in her treatment of Grendel’s mother. She allows her the simultaneous qualities of a monster while retaining her human qualities as a mother experiencing overwhelming grief at the loss of her only child. With its raucous rhymes, refreshing language pulsating with contemporary idioms, Headley successfully reclaims a thousand-year-old manuscript for today’s audience. She comes out swinging. This is definitely not your father’s Beowulf. Very highly recommended for its originality, riotous fun, effusive temperament, and sheer audacity.My book reviews are also available at www.tamaraaghajaffar.com
103200374	I've read this multiple times. One of the true, original bad asses. 6 stars. OK. Very briefly (in part because I've been very busy), the Heaney version is THE version to read if you're looking for accessibility. Who would have ever thought that such a rough and tumble read would come out so smooth? And from a poet who is all knots, rough rhythms, and peat moss. But it is. What I particularly liked were the various important speeches. Clarity is key with this version, but with lots of nice poetic phrasing. What is lost however are the rough and choppy rhythms that have accompanied virtually all my other readings. My personal favorite still remains Ruth Lehmann's 1988 effort, Beowulf: An Imitative Translation. But Heany's version is a good one. And there's no reason not to have several versions of this kick ass tale.
1778997696	It is always better to avenge dear ones than to indulge in mourning.Well that was a surprise. I didn't expect at all to like this book (well, epic) at all, especially because I read it for university, but I ended up enjoying it quite a bit. I liked the characters, the plot, the setting and I especially liked the fantasy element to the story. I'm just happy that I enjoyed something I had to read for university, because that doesn't happen very often.
2549460623	I was a little worried that this would be dry and boring but Seamus Heaney really does a fantastic job with the translation and it was a pleasure to read. The story is pretty epic, from one battle to another against evil and had me thoroughly engrossed. I’ve been wanting to read this for ages and I’m glad I finally did, it’s a classic and it really was a great read. It reminded me a bit of Lord of the Rings with its epic battles and I’m all for that!
32602284	Yeah, yeah it's a 'classic' of literature and all that but what would make this better is if a movie was made of it with some big name talented actors reduced to playing second string to some crappy CGI, now that would be entertaining!!
11246632	Another forced high school read. I'd rather drink a cup full of thumbtacks than ever read that again.
