7715085	A Great and Terrible Beauty is neither great nor beautiful, though it is indeed -- wait for it! -- terrible.The characters are simple and one-dimensional, their actions both petty and selfish. I find it difficult to believe any one of the four girls at the heart of the story cared for one another, much less anyone else. The story meanders, often digressing into lengthy passages that do little if anything to advance the characters or the story. As the story progresses, drawing to its predictable and dissatisfying conclusion, it becomes clear that Ms Bray has mistaken style for subtance and that her prose is not stylish enough to support this belief.Most offensive, however, is the racial and sexual content within the book. The male lead (a young man from India) is sexualized and fetishized for his "exotic" appearance and culture; other Indian characters are shown as either submissive or violent. The Romani people wandering the schoolgrounds suffer from even greater stereotyping: the men are portrayed as slovenly, ignorant, and sexually aggressive towards the white schoolgirls; the women are docile and suitably mystical. Her treatment of the female characters is also questionable. Though these Victorian girls wander about with decidedly un-Victorian sensibilities and though Ms Bray makes a weak attempt to decry the injustices of a society so quick to condemn the expression of feminine sexuality, the story itself does not support this modern take on the Victorian era. The girls submit to their male counterparts or pine helplessly from a distance. Sexual and romantic relationships between men and women often contain obvious and disturbing power imbalances (or violent undertones). The relationship between the four girls is emotionally shallow and deeply petty, motivated by mutual dislike and composed of backstabbing and bullying tactics. And though Ms Bray is quick to condemn the indignities and horrors of an arranged marriage, she is also quick to condemn her protagonists when they dare to act instead of react. It's a confusing mix of self-righteous pulpit pounding and misogyny, with the end result being I wanted to put my fist through the admittedly lovely and eyecatching cover.My one relief is that I had the sense to borrow this from the library instead of buying it outright. I do not recommend it.
651566626	DNF***
759076086	Okay, so I was a little slow discovering this, but since Rebel Angels just came out, I figured I would read the first in the series first. The novel can best be described as Gothic fantasy. Lots of Victorian atmosphere and ruminations about the claustrophobic restrictions on women in that time period, combined with a good portion of magic and mystery. I loved Bray's sense of humor. It saved the novel from becoming top-heavy or melodramatic. The ending didn't quite work as well for me as the rest of the book, but perhaps I was simply reading too fast by that point. I would recommend it to teen girls, say 13+. Be aware, there was a definite erotic edge to the book. No more so than Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants, but it's worth mentioning.
169666119	I don't know why for so long I just assumed I wouldn't like historical fiction, it's not as if I don't love history - I picked it for one of my A levels in college. But, I guess it's just one of those genres that sounds tedious and you imagine it to be all oppressed sexuality and prim and properness. Diana Gabaldon forever changed my mind with her oversexed and aggressive depiction of history and it was only a matter of time before I looked towards other works of historical fiction.This book is both everything I expected and also everything I didn't expect. It's set for the most part in a boarding school for educating girls in the art of being 'ladies', or in other words: wives. The girls were expected to be reserved, polite and, most importantly, beautiful. This I was prepared for. I was also prepared for the customs, superstitions and blatant sexism of the times. However, it never occurred to me that this novel would be simply a 19th century take on a modern school. There's gossiping, bitchiness and bullying of those who are different (in this case, from a lower class).It's a good dose of chick lit as well as a historical book. And that's before we've even gotten to the whole magic/fantasy aspect. This novel completely transcends genres and does it well. I didn't see the whole other-realm mysticality thing coming but I loved it. The gypsies are awesome as well, we have crazy gypsies, fake fortune-telling I-speak-with-dead-people gypsies, sexy gypsies (don't believe the rumours, 19th century girls didn't just lie back and think of England). And that's another thing I liked: the exploration of the girls' sexualities behind closed doors. It may not be the most reliable source, the book was written in modern times, but it's easy to imagine that beneath the surface of Victorian society's repressed sexuality, girls probably did talk about 'having' thousands of men: Earls, Dukes, Barons, Princes... Anyway, lost myself on a smutty tangent. I was saying that I liked the idea of weaving fantasy into history, I'm all for spicing up times gone by.I didn't give it 5 stars because it wasn't quite up there with my other 5 star rated books. I liked it, I loved the many different elements that made the novel hard to categorise and I liked the characters. I always like it when things aren't just as simple as "she's a bitch" and "she's a freak" in any kind of genre. I liked how, even though Gemma lost her mother at the beginning, the relationship was still built up throughout. I liked that the protagonist wasn't a pushover, even more so because the novel setting was in a very sexist society. And I love anything with dreams and/or visions.
83102968	Shall I tell you a story? A new and terrible one? A ghost story?Are you ready?Shall I begin? Once upon a time there were four girls. One was pretty.One was clever.One charming, and one…One was mysterious. But they were all damaged, you see. Something not right about the lot of them. Bad blood. Big dreams. Oh, I left that part out. Sorry, that should have come before. They were all dreamers, these girls.One by one, night after night,the girls came together. And they sinned. Do you know what that sin was? Their sin was that they believed. Believed they could be different. Special. They believed they could change what they were—damaged, unloved.Cast-off things. They would be alive, adored,needed. Necessary. But it wasn't true. This is a ghost story, remember? A tragedy.They were misled. Betrayed by their own stupid hopes. Things couldn't be different for them, because they weren't special after all. So life took them, led them, and they went along, you see?They faded before their own eyes, till they were nothing more than living ghosts, haunting each other with what could be. What can't be.There, now. Isn't that the scariest story you've ever heard?
915199891	4.5*Libba Bray never seems to disappoint and this was no exception! I really loved this one! I love the time period and all the witchiness and the characters were awesome, it was great!
2041939727	According to the author, this is a story about an English girl named Gemma who sees things. A girl with a dead mother, a lot of guilt, strange friends and a mysterious destiny. To me, it was a story about a strong-willed teen who felt alone in the world. I specifically used the word "teen" to denote a person whose life inexperience causes her to make impulsive decisions—not all bad, mind you—but implusive nonetheless.The story is set in Victorian-era England, a period in time where a girl's greatest hope was (supposed to be) to marry well (read money). Well-born girls were trained to smile and be proper no matter what and, eventually, "lie back and think of England"."They were mislead. Betrayed by their own stupid hopes. Things couldn't be different for them because they weren't special after all. So life took them, led them, and they went along, you see. They faded before their own eyes till they were nothing more than living ghosts, haunting each other with what could be, what can't be."So, while this is a story that is centered around Gemma finding a diary that reveals the secrets of the mystical "Order", I found it to be more character driven. And I mean that in the best way. I loved getting to know Gemma, Felicity, Pippa and Ann and seeing their friendship change and grow when, through a magical realm, they were able to experience the desires of their hearts.QUOTES I LOVE... ❣️"They see her differently now. As somebody. And isn't that what everyone wants? To be seen?""What if I am damaged?" "We're all damaged somehow.""You can never really know someone completely. That's why it's the most terrifying thing in the world, really, taking someone on faith, hoping they'll take you on faith, too. It's such a precarious balance. It's a wonder we do it at all. And yet...""I've heard it said that God is in the details. It's the same with the truth. Leave out the details, the crucial heart, and you can damn someone with the bare bones of it.""But forgiveness... I'll hold on to that fragile slice of hope and keep it close, remembering that in each of us there lies good and bad, light and dark, art and pain, choice and regret, cruelty and sacrifice. We're each of us our own chiaroscuro, our own bit of illusion fighting to emerge into something solid, something real. We've got to forgive ourselves that.""In every end there is also a beginning."And with that, I look forward to reading Rebel Angels and The Sweet Far Thing. Thank you, Libba Bray.
910132100	“Don’t you ever speak to me that way again,” I snarl. “I am no longer content to be the scared, obedient schoolgirl. Who are you, a stranger, to tell me what I can and cannot do?” Wow, this was such a pleasant surprise. If you don't know, The Diviners by Libba Bray is one of my favorite books ever. So you can imagine I had my doubts that a book written many years earlier by the author would live up to it.But A Great and Terrible Beauty was just so good. I shouldn't have doubted Ms. Bray. It had so many great things going for it, with the Victorian setting, mysterious death of the main character's mother, supernatural elements, and rebellious, lovable narrator, Gemma Doyle.Seriously, this book was too much fun, while also taking a look at more serious historical facts, such as how many young girls were bred to be the wives of rich men during this time - even if the men were thirty years older. Gemma was a fantastic narrator; she grew up in India until her mother's sudden death forced her to come to England and attend a young ladies' boarding school.At Spence Academy Gemma befriends three girls and they start their own secret club, but when Gemma finds out she possess supernatural powers from her mother, it changes everything.The writing was wonderful; the friendships between the well-developed characters Gemma, Felicity, Pippa, and Ann were hilarious and sometimes vicious in the way that teenage girls can be. They were expected to behave like proper ladies, but these wild girls were the complete opposite and were desperate to escape constricting corsets, French lessons, and everyone telling them what not to do.I became so absorbed in this world - the Victorian era felt like something supernatural in itself, with the claustrophobic rules of Spence Academy. Gemma's mysterious family legacy, the strange boy who kept showing up in her bedroom, and the diary of a dead girl she discovered drove the plot until I felt like I was living in it. I just love when stories do that - when I become so invested in them they seem to come to life, and for a short while I'm a part of that world.A gothic, Victorian paranormal that focused on a young woman during a time where she didn't seem to fit into the social rules. It was a fun, clever, and female empowering story. “I think I’m beginning to understand why those ancient women had to hide in caves. Why our parents and teachers and suitors want us to behave properly and predictably. It’s not that they want to protect us; it’s that they fear us.”
1263146729	3.75 starsI went into this book knowing nothing about it except that it possibly had something to do with witches (which in the end was incorrect). I love that this is both historical and has magical elements, especially set at a boarding school, because the aesthetic and the setting of the book was really neat. I also love that despite the time, Gemma is a feminist and has a lot of confidence. However, I had more problems with this book than I have praise. I felt like Gemma was very gullible and foolish in her decision-making, something that made me shake my head the entire book. Additionally, I was having a hard time getting into this because for some reason I kept getting bored and picking up other things. I loved Libba Bray's writing style, though, so I can't wait to pick up her other books and maybe one day continue on with this series, but at this point I'm not sure.(sorry to all my really good friends that love this book. :c)
2112517220	Review originally posted on my blog here: https://morejeansthoughts.wordpress.c...This is the first book I have read by Libba Bray who is, in fact, quite the prolific author and incredibly popular amongst fans of Young Adult literature. My interest was peaked in Bray’s writing after reading an article she had written here for EW. Upon reading Bray’s article I immediately ordered both A Great and Terrible Beauty and Beauty Queens by the author. Seeing her discuss the influences and objectives of her young adult work made me see them in a much more complex light than perhaps the blurbs alone would have. Not only did my first foray into her work not disappoint, it far exceeded all of my expectations. A Great and Terrible Beauty is the first in her Gemma Doyle series and what a beginning it is.The year is 1895 and our story follows Gemma Doyle, a young woman from a wealthy English family who has spent her entire life thus far growing up in India. After tragedy strikes, however, her life is uprooted and she is sent to board at a girls’ finishing school in England. Her life in England is far more than elocution lessons and keeping up with this season’s latest fashions; Miss Doyle is haunted by visions of another world, one both terrifying and beautiful.This book melds together 19th century Britain, female friendships, sexual awakenings and magic. The story and characters are engaging and mysterious with so much more bubbling under the surface. There is so much I enjoyed about this first book in the series that it is difficult to condense my feelings for you in one blog post, but here I go.For one, the characters are complex; each has their good and their bad qualities, their virtues and their vices. Those of Gemma’s fellow students who may initially seem like your cliche mean girls upon her arrival in England, gradually have their layers peeled back and their persons exposed. These are young women struggling with the confines of their time and station, dreaming of lives where they can make choices of their own rather than to suit the demands of their families and society.The book embodies a sense of longing throughout; a longing to know oneself and a longing to belong, to be accepted whilst clambering to stand out. Not forgetting a carnal longing, which is far more unfamiliar to these once girls who find themselves becoming young women. To explore themselves truly, however, is made all the more difficult by the restrictive confines of their contemporary society where women’s roles are constructed in order to serve the male elite. In these circumstances who would not find the call of a magical order made up entirely of women seductive?Bray’s book shines a light on the individuality of women in a time when they were allowed very little. She allows them freedom in this and other worlds to explore themselves and their desires. At the same time, they may want to tread cautiously whilst they discover their own boundaries and challenge those that have been imposed upon them.Dare I describe this as the historical feminist fantasy novel that I never knew I always wanted? Bring on book two.
166374464	I got most of the way through this, and then found that I just didn't care. I didn't care about the characters, the plot moved in fits and starts, the romance/tension/whatever it was supposed to be, with Kartik, just felt pasted on... In conclusion, I basically ran out of give-a-damn.The writing is competent, in that it's all easy enough to read and understand, but given that the main character's voice wasn't convincing, even though she's the narrator, and the pacing felt jerky, the characters unsympathetic, etc, etc, I can't find myself recommending it. It wasn't completely terrible for me to read -- I didn't want to throw it across the room -- but honestly, I couldn't see where people get four and five star ratings for it from. I won't be reading anything else by Libba Bray any time soon.
1273389649	Why did I wait so long to read this? Such a great adventure! Strong, smart heroine with untapped magical potential. Loved the historical setting, too. Sign me up for the series! <3
15883605	This is a young adult book, so I tried really hard to take that into consideration when judging it, but there are so many other, well-done kid/teen books out there that I feel OK about occasionally trashing one.It basically follows the same overdone storyline we've all seen way too many times: boarding school kids whose parents don't want them discover they have magical powers, and they go through the whole 'magic for good versus magic for evil' struggle. This one didn't work because there was nothing new or imaginative about the story, and the whole book just felt... well, "flat" is the first word that comes to mind. The story was frustratingly predictable, the characters one-dimensional, and the writing drab. I appreciate that the author was trying to encourage a bit of feminist thinking by showing how repressive the Victorian era was for young women, but I think the best way she could have had a positive influence on young readers would be by having a strong protagonist. Instead, the main character is just as annoyingly angsty and self-conscious as all the other angsty teenagers in the book.
170134444	Mysterious Sexy Boy: “So Gemma, isn’t it exciting to be attending your first Grateful Dead concert?”Gemma Doyle: “Yes, but… Jerry Garcia has been actually dead for years..”MSB: “Not for the purpose of this review, he isn’t. Just go with it” GD: *sniff* *sniff* “Hmmm… what’s that smell?” *giggle* “And why am I suddenly craving pizza with chocolate??” *giggle*MSB: “Son of a bitch! Gemma, that is second hand marijuana smoke. If you inhale enough you will get super duper high and will enjoy this concert immensely. For the love of god, do not inhale it!!!”GD: “How do you expect me to not inhale it when it is all around me? I can’t very well control the air I breathe, can I?” *sniiiifffff*MSB: “That is your problem to figure out. Just don’t inhale.”GD: *turns to hippie on her left* “What’s this? Oh, I put it in my mouth and breathe in? Like this?” *cough* MSB: “Goddammit Gemma! I tell you not to inhale second hand smoke and now you are smoking a joint?!”GD: “How can weed be so bad if it makes me feel so good, man?”MSB: “I’m not telling you. Even though you are feeling awesome right now, you are not to smoke any more pot. Ever. I will compel you with my mysterious and sexy ways to do as I say.”GD: “Suck it mysterious sexy boy. Getting high is fun. I’m gonna go hang with these hippies and you can’t stop me.”Does trouble ensue? Of course it does. We have read this plot dozens of times in countless paranormal YA books. Oh, not getting high at a Dead concert. Excuse me =) A young girl with newly discovered and tempting powers who is not supposed to fully explore them for no reason other than she is told not to. Even so, A Great and Terrible Beauty was a pleasurable read. Set in a Victorian era all girl finishing school, A Great and Terrible Beauty tells the story of Gemma Doyle. Gemma is a teenage girl who has lived her entire life in India and only recently traveled to her home country of England after the unexpected death of her mother. Despite the setting, this story is thankfully fairly modern in its dialogue, plot pacing and many of its ideas. (Victorian novels always sound appealing to me, but frequently bore me to tears when I actually attempt to read them.) This novel explores the constraints of Victorian society, the way teenage girls manage to be constant frenemies, and a pretty cool paranormal world. A Great and Terrible Beauty is a solid three stars. It is not the best this genre has to offer, but it is far from the worst. As the first of a trilogy it contains the inevitable set up and uncompleted threads. However, it does not end on a nasty cliffhanger, so those who just aren’t feeling this after reading it shouldn’t be left wondering too much at the end of the book.
2710316102	Exactamente no sé qué decir. En parte me ha gustado, pero me ha faltado algo, quizá más romance o acción.
1459400287	This series is one of my favorite. Reviewing it will not do it justice. Bray creates a world of dreams, wonder and magic. With every thing beautiful, something dark, horrible and nightmarish comes forth. Because what is light without the contracting dark? Not everything that comes from dreams, wonder and magic is good though. And not everything that is dark, horrible and nightmarish is bad. So what can you trust? The feeling in your gut? The pull towards your deepest desire? Is it truly worth it? Are the dark secrets that lay before you worth the power? Gemma is going crazy. She saw her mother die, yet she wasn't in eye shot of her. She sees things.. sees people.. yet is it really crazy if it is actually happening? She finally gets to go to London to finishing school where she meets three girls that lives will forever be altered by her own. These girls feel as if finishing school is rubbish and that there is more out there for themselves. Which they do indeed find out just what is out there for them.She is followed by a man, Kartik, who believes her when she says she saw her mother's death. He tells her not to dig any deeper and to leave things alone.But how can she when there's even a 01% chance that she will be able to see her mother again? Who is this creepy, gypsy-like guy anyway and why does he even believe her? This book is full of magic. I am telling you, it is beautiful. It's woven so well that at some points you are like, "wait, why can't this happen to me?" Bray has a way of getting you to love characters so much that you feel like you actually know the person. Then she may do something horrible to them. That's when you'll throw the book across the room, sit for about five seconds, and then run to pick it up and continue reading.Or you'll be like me and read the end before you even are past chapter three because you can't handle anything. I advise against doing that. I'm not a good role model. This series WILL, and I underline that with all my feeling, break your heart. It will break it so much that you can't pick it up again and read it until it's been seven years or more (example: me), but you won't regret a thing. I love and hate you Libba Bray.
88047052	It's telling when most of the popular goodreads reviews of this book, positive as well as negative, contain some sort of disclaimer about needing to cut this book slack because it's a YA book. But is a juvenile audience a legitimate excuse for juvenile writing?The story is this: It's 1895, and 16-year-old Gemma Doyle's mother has just died a tragic and mysterious death in India. Gemma, as a result, is shipped off to an England boarding school where rich young ladies (and one scholarship student) learn the important skills of painting, waltzing, and French. Gemma's roommate, Ann, is the one scholarship student -- orphaned, plain-looking, lonely, deliberately cutting her skin as a means of relief. Gemma also meets a clique straight out of the movie "Mean Girls" -- Felicity (the dominant leader), Pippa (the beautiful and dumb sidekick), and a few other forgettable hangers-on. It's fierce enmity at first sight, with a variety of nasty pranks exchanged until Gemma discovers an incriminating secret about Felicity. Whereupon Gemma and Felicity immediately become the best of friends (nothing like blackmail to forge a deep friendship), forming a new foursome comprised of Felicity and Pippa, and Gemma and Ann. Gemma gradually discovers that she has magic powers which can take her to supernatural realms, and that she can even bring her new bosom buddies with her. But -- surprise, surprise -- there's a dark side to all this power, and it proves dangerous.Where to begin? Well, first of all, the story is rather anachronistic or just plain artificial in a lot of ways. I guess I'm kind of a purist, but I can't help feeling that if you want to write about this era, do it right. When I read Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell, I actually felt like I was reading a Victorian novel even though it was written only a few years ago. Here, I alternated between feeling like Libba was superimposing modern-day sensibilities and feeling like she was grossly exaggerating the norms of the times. On the one hand, you've got these Victorian teenagers drinking and discussing sex graphically from a pretty well-informed perspective at a time when revealing an ankle was considered scandalous. On the other hand, you've got a singularly beautiful girl being completely forced by her parents (absolutely no veto power granted to her, even though Jane Austen's heroines seemed perfectly capable of rejecting unwanted marriage proposals) to marry a man 40 years older than she is (come on, with her beauty they couldn't at least find a younger guy?) because he has money. I can't claim to know enough about that era to know whether either, or both, of those things were completely inconsistent with the times but they sure didn't ring true to me. Ditto for the boarding school where the girls seem to get away with murder because the headmistress (called Mrs. Nightwing even though she's apparently a spinster -- did I miss something?) drinks sherry at night and remains blissfully unaware of the girls sneaking out at all hours. And Gemma's cynicism and inner sarcasm also beg the question of anachronism; I'm not saying people didn't have negative thoughts back then, but I think that expressing them in that particular way, even inwardly, is distinctly contemporary. Someone I work with once told me that her teenage daughter says things to her that (and this is a direct quote), "I never even dared to think about my mother." I think there's something to that -- if you go back a few generations, there were certain thoughts that not only weren't expressed, but weren't indulged. You'll never find this kind of direct snarkiness in real Victorian books; if it's there at all, it's expressed in a far more subtle and classy way. Little aside/disclaimer here: truthfully, I'm not sure how much to criticize Libba for what was arguably a legitimate artistic decision. As she says, "There's definitely an element of 'fusion cooking' at work here. I wanted to have all the trappings of that [Victorian:] era...But I wanted [the girls:] to have a universality to them, too; a sort of modernity of feeling." Is it wrong to try to set a book in Victorian times and, at the same time, try to give your heroine some thoughts and feelings that would make her more relatable for 21st century readers (especially teens)? When I think back on the Victorian books I've read, though, I found the heroines quite relatable within the confines of their being consistent with their context. I didn't need them to express 21st century cynicism in order for me to empathize with them.Complaint #2 -- way too many coincidences/artificial contrivances. Kartik, an attractive (of course) young man who witnessed Gemma's mother's death, keeps popping up conveniently at the right places at the right times -- first in India, then camping outside of Gemma's British school with the gypsies -- and is somehow present to warn or protect Gemma at practically every critical plot turn. Didn't he have a life? Was it part of the magic angle that he always knew where to be and when? And when Pippa has her seizure while the girls were practicing waltzing under the headmistress's supervision, naturally it was Miss Moore, the avant-garde art teacher (think Julia Roberts' character in "Mona Lisa Smile" or Miss Jean Brodie) who was conveniently present (why? It wasn't art class) to help out and as a result, to be available for a significant heart-to-heart with Gemma. And when Pippa later tries to break off her engagement, why is the headmistress involved? And why does she call a meeting not only with Pippa, but with the other members of the clique, to discuss the whole thing? Wouldn't this be more appropriately dealt with between Pippa, her fiance, and her parents?Finally, I have to try to articulate my irritation with the writing. Here's a phrase I got from goodreads reviews that I've been longing to use -- the prose was clunky. CLUNKY. CLUNK CLUNK CLUNK. I felt like I was watching a bad movie. Transitions were abrupt or nonexistent, not to mention flat characters and often stilted dialogue.The one good thing I have to say is that it was a fast read, and for all my complaints, not quite awful enough to abandon. And here or there, there was actually an interesting insight embedded among all the tripe. Hence the two stars.
1014694311	REVIEW OF THE GEMMA DOYLE TRILOGY AS A WHOLEI've been putting of this series for a while since I only had the first book in the series...however, I chose to buy them on my kindle too and since then I binge read the whole thing. The first book, A Great and Terrible Beauty had me absolutely hooked from the first page. However, in my opinion the series went downhill from each book after that. The characters in this book were wonderful. The main character, Gemma was a problematic teen who held power she didn't quite understand. Her friends, Pippa, Felicity and Ann are just as complicated. The back stories behind them are well planned and thought out. They're not just people who standby by and allow Gemma to be the hero. No, they're right there next to her being just as wonderful as her. I did feel that the character of Kartik wasn't as well rounded and formulated as the female characters in this book. I didn't feel a connection with him and I struggled to see a relationship between him and Gemma other than lust. As for the storyline...the first book, it was mind-blowing. Then the next to books seemed very similar to the first book. Eventually i could predict what would happen, easily. It was a book that kept me turning the page but it did not keep on my toes. In saying that though there were parts towards the end that I couldn't have predicted. Which was a pleasant surprise. Over all I give this series a 3 out of 5 stars!
518122290	Pre-review: I want to read this book because I'd heard good things about it, but after reading this review, I'm not sure anymore.Note: I read the Chinese translation of this book, and I'm not sure whether the translator had mistakenly make the Main Character (a young lady from the 1890s Victorian era) sound like an air-headed modern teenager, or was it Libba Bray's own fault for giving her own MC such kind of misplaced voice. Actual review here:I give this book a Nothing Special 1.5 starsWell...A Great and Terrible Beauty isn't the worst book I've ever read, comparing with A Discovery of Witches (which I'm sure I'm going to Do Not Finish) it's highly enjoyable. It's a quick, easy read and it doesn't charge you too much brain cells, but I still won't recommend it to people who've already read a few paranormal YA novels before, because the story really is Nothing Special.First, let me tell you I needed to keep telling myself to calm down when reading this book, and that's the only reason why I managed to avoid throwing a bitch fit during the reading process. Why? Here're a few reasons:(1) The story begins with the MC arguing with her mother on the street of Bombay, India; an Indian colonial city at that time, and said MC had been behaving in an rather disrespectful manner toward the local people and her very own Indian housekeeper.Well...I actually needed to put the book aside and take some deep breath and reminded myself the story is set in the 1890s, and it probably was common for the white people to feel superior toward the locals, but still...the MC had really been quite a bitch toward her housekeeper, whom she had known for most of her life and acted as the MC's caretaker. I'm disgusted. Plus, it goes without saying that once the MC left India behind, not once did the MC remember the housekeeper, not once. Edited@27/02/2015: well, a helpful reviewer came up to say the MC, Gemma, did think of her Indian housekeeper for a few times, but I'm sorry, I really was unable to find it in the Chinese translation I read.(2) Somehow, a British citizen who wasn't born with a single drop of Indian blood in her, and who also wasn't a Hinduist, had adopted Goddess Kali, the goddess of destruction, as her guardian goddess.I'm disgusted, as an non-Hinduist, when I visited India some years ago, for more than once I wasn't allowed to come anywhere near some of the shrines within the temples, because those important shrines are for believers only. But it's okay for the MC, a non-Hinduist, to appoint Kali to be her guardian goddess!?That's bullshit. And said MC was referring Goddess Kali to an 'evil goddess'. I'm sorry!? In the Hindus myths, Kali drinks blood and she kills a lot of demons, but at the same time she's viewed as a great mother and protector of humankind. So she is definitely not evil! Ignorant Little White Girl, would you please not put your sticky fingers on the Hindus myth and a goddess you obviously know nothing about?(3) There's also an Indian young man who serves as the love interest, I don't have much to say about him because he's only there to be the mysterious, handsome guy; but at least this guy is a shade better than what we had gotten in this godforsaken Tiger's Curse book.(4) Last but not least, the MC had been a little bitch toward her mother. I'm aware of the fact that girls from Victorian era probably weren't supposed to be worldly and knowledgeable about things outside of their families and their social circle, instead they were expected to be sheltered and naive in order to keep their 'innocence', but still.Thankfully, the story moves from Bombay to London after Chapter 4 or so, but I'm still faced by other problems: (5)There's magic, secret societies, demons(?) and otherworldly dimensions in the story, but the world building is as weak as what we had gotten from the Prophecy of the Sisters series by Michelle Zink. In another word: empty stupid make-believe.(6) Once the MC arrived to the boarding school for young ladies, we get the complete Mean Girls treatment.(7) Supposedly the MC befriended three other girls in the boarding school, but I can never believe those girls had shared deep enough friendship and trust to a point they agreed to keep an important secret together.(8) School girls doing witchcraft in the boarding school. *facepalms* I know they were only 16 or so years old, but still.(9) (view spoiler)[ After reunited with her dead mother in the otherworld, the MC continues to argue with her mother instead of listening to her advice. (hide spoiler)] The MC never learns.(10) The ending...bad things happened to the MC and her friends, and I'm not even sorry, instead I'm aloof and don't give a damn about whether those girls live or die. Why should I care when there had already been people forewarning the MC and her friends: "Don't do this! Don't go there! It's dangerous!" but they still do it anyway?My suggestion: this book doesn't worth your hard-earned money, borrow it.
967094418	2023 update: Yikes ya'll...this is why it's so difficult to go back and read books that you once enjoyed, but they no longer hold up. Granted, this book was published almost 20 years ago; however, there were some elements of the book that genuinely didn't work for me anymore. There is a slur/antiquated term for Romani people that is consistently used in the text that I just couldn't look over. There was also an over sexualization of Romani men that would supposedly put the "young, innocent" girls in danger of having their reputations tarnished. It made my blood boil. There was also a fetishization of an Indian character that rubbed me the wrong way. All other Indian characters felt stereotyped. Unfortunately, I'm not sure that I'll be willing to continue the series. Libba Bray definitely has grown as an author and readers will notice that growth in the Diviners series. This definitely feels like its weaker and lacks the same depth and research that she puts into that series.----------------- I know a lot of people don't really care for this book but I actually liked it! Can't wait to read the rest of the books in the trilogy.
1303315414	This is a strong case of it's not you, it's me. Even though this book is wonderfully written and deals with themes I'm usually very interested in (i.e. the social position of women in the Victorian era), I never got fully invested in the story or the characters. Maybe it was just the wrong time for me to read this (October was a weird reading month for me), or maybe I would've enjoyed this slightly more if I were a little younger... Either way, it was sadly just an okay read for me.
1410965474	Review to come later, after I've finished thinking about it. Hmm hmm hmm.
2543405388	3.5 stars*While this book was interesting and very enjoyable there were a few things that I struggled with.1) The pacing. I found the pacing to be very slow and felt that nothing happened. The same thing seemed to happen all the time. Within the first 150 pages I was bored and struggled to get into the book, I honestly thought about DNFing it. I am not a huge fan of books that have a slow pace. 2) The writing. I don't know what it is but I am not a fan of the writing style. I found it hard to read at times, mostly at the beginning of the book and was often getting confused about what was happening. There were times where I had to read a paragraph or a sentence more than once just to understand what was happening. I liked the plot and the storyline. It is an interesting world that Bray has invented and I am keen to learn more.
1316059741	First off, I want to say HAPPY NEW YEAR! It's crazy because I started the New Year with a new book. :) Anyway, I learned so much in my year of 2015 and can't wait to learn more. I read so many beautiful books that I may reread because MOST OF THEM WERE AWESOME! 2016 is going to be an interesting year and I just want to thank all of my Goodreads friends who are all awesome and make my day. Whenever something horrible happens, I know that all of my Goodreads friends will cheer me up! Thank you to Aj and Rachel for your awesome support, recommendations and commenting on my reviews. You guys are awesome. Thank you to Hayat and many others for commenting on my reviews. Although it may seem like a small deed, it really means a lot to me. NOW ON WITH THE REVIEW! :) “There are no safe choices. Only other choices.” After a horrible incident that takes place in India, Gemma Doyle is sent to Spence, an academy for girls. After attending the school, Gemma feels alone and there is already a mean girl out to get her. She notices the East Wing, which was burnt in a mysterious accident and realizes the school has so many secrets. She is being followed by a man from India and she doesn't know why. But Gemma wants to find out the reasons of why this is all happening to her. Through out the book, Gemma finds herself and her friends, she finds love and finds answers. “In every end, there is also a beginning.” When I started reading this book, I was really interested in where the story was going. But I felt like it was a bit cliche and I kept rolling my eyes because of something that happens. It was like one of movies where there is a popular girl and an invisible girl. Later on, I realized that this book isn't cliche at all, it was so different, although parts of it was, most of it was different. It took place in a different time period, it had characters who were different and huge plot twists. Some of the things that I guessed were true while others were completely wrong. It was interesting and I couldn't stop reading until I found out the ending of the book. “There's a lot about discovering who you are and how difficult that is. And it never stops.” The characters were awesome, some were crazy, some were innocent. Gemma was really strong but most of her decisions were horrible in this book. Ann is the character who is almost like me, but the only difference we have is the fact that I don't care about my appearance. Felicity is one of the characters that I cringe about because she always wants to be in charge and scares me at what she will suggest next. I wish people will stand up to her instead of listening to every word that she says. In my opinion, I feel like Pippa was a follower, but grew a little bit independent after. Kartik was one of those mysterious characters and I wished that he explained more instead of leaving us on a cliff hanger. UGH. “If you tell them what they want to hear, they don't bother to try to see.” The pace was at a medium level, it wasn't too fast but it wasn't too slow. It was balanced in a way that you want to keep reading but at the same time, you want to put the book down and take a break. I felt like it was perfect because I always want to snack whenever I am reading because I feel super weak if I read for long periods of time. I finished this book in one sitting so I snacked a lot. :) “It's possible to pretend I'm someone other than who I am, and if I pretend long enough, I can believe it.” There were a lot of stereotypes in this book about women being beautiful like goddesses while men were violent. They have things about gypsies who were seen as disgusting people in this book. So if you are one of those people who might be offended or not interested about reading these things, I don't recommend this book to you. “I refuse to let the past find me here.” The writing was beautiful and I can't wait to read more from Libba Bray. This series is so different and the world is really interesting. I want to see more growth in the characters although they grew a lot in this book. I can't wait to see the different adventures they go on. “Women who have power are always feared.” I highly recommend this book to anyone who needs to read a new series and is confused on where to start. This is really interesting and you will love it.
27136416	When I first picked up this book (based on GR reviews), I didn't realize it was YA... and so it earned another star based on the lowering of my expectations. I thought this book had a great beginning, interesting premise and colorful characters and then the middle collapsed into teen angst before rushing toward an ending that seemed, well, rushed.That said, I'll probably try the sequel... but not anytime soon.(Reviewed 1/26/09)
1524963111	I’m still not quite sure how I actually managed to read this book in its entirety without losing my mind. The idea sounded really interesting but sadly this book was just a whole lot of nonsense. The writing and storyline just felt messy and like it wasn’t really going anywhere. Add to that the fact that the main character was an insufferable twit who made me want to pull my hair out and this was most definitely not the book for me and I sure as hell won’t be continuing with the series!
4892227916	I love the rich historical feel of the story line, both from the eastern and western part of the world. I wasn’t so taken with the bickering and cliques of privileged school girls.Overall, it was very enjoyable, beautifully imaginative, and the world building was great. I will give this a four star rating.
1855022512	You can never really know someone completely. That’s why it’s the most terrifying thing in the world, really—taking someone on faith, hoping they’ll take you on faith too. It’s such a precarious balance, it’s a wonder we do it at all. And yet... Libba Bray managed to combine all three components in A Great and Terrible Beauty which are a great premise, terrible characters and motivation behind their behavior and a beautiful writing. Unfortunately, no matter how great the premise was and how beautiful the writing is, terrible characters isn't the thing to joke about.Not that I expected anything extraordinaire, since the premise sounds pretty ordinary — boarding school, mystery, group of girls — but the setting intrigued me. Girls at Spence are taught French, singing, art, but first of all they're taught how to be ladies, how to be the best wives for their future husbands. They're taught how to curtsy, how to cheer a man and when to keep their mouths shut. What else does a young girl in 1895 need to know? Finally arriving to London after so many years of tearful pleas, Gemma Doyle knows for sure that she doesn't want to be "a perfect wife". So when she finds a diary full of secrets and mysteries, she can't let it go without finding the truth about what really happened to her mother and to the enigmatic owner of the diary — Mary Dowd — and her new friends are willing to help her with it. But as they say, some truths are better left unknown. “Can you really have an inner circle with only four people?” I ask, sounding braver than I feel. “Seems more like an inner square, doesn’t it?” So while the premise was great, the characters... not so much. I totally understood, diving into this book, that Gemma was 16 years old and we were all 16 y.o once. It might not be a very nice age when it comes to building relationships with your parents, and girls at Spence had even greater concerns — they're about to be married against their will — but I'm past that stage, so even though Gemma's immaturity, annoyance and rebelliousness made sense, I can't call her a relatable or even likable, nor can I apply these words to her so-called friends. Ann is that one girl no one really notices, but whenever they have an opportunity, people laugh at her. Felicity is the typical "main-evil-mean-girl" from movies about high school that isn't dumb, on the opposite, is the very example of "class" and has some issues with one or both parents. Unlike Felicity, Pippa might not be the smartest one, but she's fashionable and people hang out with her. Now how these four ended up being friends is beyond my imagination (and, maybe, beyond Bray's too, since they just did at one point). Secrets do bring people together, but these four? I'm not sure I can even call it a "friendship", in the end they just looked like typical people who are stuck at one place and have to hang out together. You don't often see "bullies" hanging out with their "victims", so, maybe, that was an interesting approach, but all that bullshit that came with it didn't leave me impressed. I haven’t the heart to tell her that Tom’s looking for a rich wife, probably a pretty one, too, and that she will never be able to compete. It's so nice of you, Gemma, to think so high of your friends. Are these the infamous british manners? I doubt it. She’s diligently trying to add sepia shadows to her painting now, and it’s making her fruit look bruised and ugly. But I’m not going to tell her that. At one point she started to act too childish and mean, and Pippa started to bore me to death with her pouting face, so that left me with liking Felicity that actually evolved a little bit during the book.On the bright side A Great and Terrible Beauty, thankfully, wasn't full of oh-so-encompassing-big-love, so at least I didn't have a pleasure of witnessing Gemma being a love-struck teenager in 1895. “There are no safe choices. Only other choices.” A Great and Terrible Beauty wasn't shocking and didn't really have any "big reveals", but, maybe, that's because I felt kind of indifferent towards the book almost all the time. The pace suits the book: slowly unravelling all the secrets, it evenly tells the story without feeling dragging.(view spoiler)[Gemma's mother being Mary Dowd was a nice touch, even though it wasn't surprising, but I really appreciated the gloominess of the ending. Libba Bray proves to be an author that doesn't "play safe" with her books and characters. After all Pippa was the best "candidate" for dying she was so whiny sometimes, honestly, considering her situation and the upcoming forced marriage. The execution of all those illusions/lies/betrayal could've been so much better, though, but it felt rather hurriedly done. (hide spoiler)] “We’re all damaged somehow.” As for the last, but not least, component of the book — the writing was beautiful. It was picturesque enough to capture the atmosphere, but wasn't overdone. No matter how slow some episodes might've been and how indifferent I was throughout the book, I didn't have a thought not to finish it. Notwithstanding that I'm not going to finish this series, A Great and Terrible Beauty was a quite fast read that made me want to read more of the author's books. And, I hope, the content of Diviners will be as divine as the title suggests.
1524883807	I liked this book a lot. It was so refreshing to me to see a book that focused so much more heavily on female friendship than on the romance aspects because it is so rare to see that in teen books. There were a few parts where I thought this story got a little repetitive, especially towards the end, but that didn't take away from my love of this book that much. I did enjoy the plot and I am excited to see what happens in the next book but what really drew me into this story was the characters. At the beginning, I thought it was weird how quickly people that disliked each other became friends but I grew to love and care about each of the characters and I can't wait to see where the story goes in later books. I have to say right now the ending of this book seemed very definitive to me and I can't see very clearly where this will go next, but the fact that I'm still very excited to read the next book shows me that this was a good ending to the book. I truly loved the setting of this book and seeing the world through the eyes of girls living in a very different time, where girls had to be very prim and proper and obedient, was very interesting and really painted clear picture of what it may have been like to live as a girl back then, minus the magical elements. Of loved seeing all the personalities of the four main girls shine through and also the personalities of the secondary characters as well. You could see which girls were more excepting of their lot in life and which wished for a little more. There are a few characters I am still intrigued about, such as Ms. Moore and Mrs. Nightwing. I also didn't feel like the stories of the two other girls from the past Sarah and Mary were completely wrapped up, especially with Sarah so I'll be interested to see if the other books explain more about those people. I also loved the way magic was used in this book and the way it was blended into the world so I'm looking forward to learning more about how all the magic works. I'm looking forward to reading the next book and hopefully getting some answers to all the questions I still have at the end of this book.
5005296478	Boarding school for young ladies who might be married off to old rich men if their families get away with it find a way to escape into fairyland by getting drunk and discovering Sappho. If you wanted a dark academia book with a cottagecore aesthetic, search no more. I’m honestly ofended, can you believe this? So many lists of ‘’Dark Academia books you need to read!’’ Include a bunch of books that have nothing to do with academia at all, yet this one is in almost none of the lists? Your favorite classic with morals ge=rey characters is not a Dark Academia book just because you want it to be, Jeremy; this is! Felicity my beloved. Stop killing lesbians or you'll see what I'll do3.5
19822836	Is it fair to say I hate a book if I didn't even finish it? My high school English teacher would say No. But I don't care. I hated this book. It was painful for me to read. I didn't like the story or the characters. I agonized over each word that was written. For nearly 6 weeks I tried to make myself sit down and read it. When there was a choice between scrubbing my toilet and reading this book, I chose the toilet!I know there will be some who will throw me into the streets and cast stones at me for saying that. But whatever--I didn't like the book, nor would I EVER recommend it to anyone else to read!
1227079627	4/5 stars I'm sorry, Gemma. But we can't live in the light all of the time. You have to take whatever light you can hold into the dark with you. Something to listen to while reading this ♥Trigger warnings for: Self harm, a rape joke, epileptic fitsLibba Bray never disappoints me, but what's new? When I picked this book up, my expectations were dark sky-high and my excitement as measurable as each small particle of dust in a haunted castle. Truth be told, this wasn't as good as the Diviners, as it followed some stereotypical YA cliches and widely-used tropes, but it was also feminist, and well-researched, gothic-inspired and full of slowly progressing friendships and various types of representation.The story followed Gemma Doyle, a girl who just wanted to have an adventure, but instead got tangled in a world of grief, and power, and darkness, and so many other girls who wished to hold power in their hands in an era that suppressed them. There were various elements of mystery, and I loved the mythological aspects that were carefully woven in the story, like intricate lace designs. The writing was different from the Diviners, but it was just as historically accurate. The atmosphere was absolutely stunning, and the all-girls finishing school Gemma went at made everything even better. One of the things this story is famous for is its mostly-female cast, and it was such a refreshing thing to see! The friendships here and the way girl-hate turned slowly into girls finding comfort in each other and pushing their differences away all made me incredibly happy and excited to meet them better. Truth be told, I started to feel close to them in the second book, but that same thing happened in the Diviners as well, so it didn't put me off very much.One thing I can't say I liked was the romance. Gemma and Kartik both seemed quite preoccupied by their own problems, and their attraction felt forced, very allonormative and weird to me (it is very possible that this is just me, though). Speaking of, this book painted a very detailed picture of female sexuality, and of how women started to explore and voice their desires, despite the way Victorian era forced the "pure angel" stereotype. In other parts of representation, I really liked the conversations on mental health in this story (that become even more prominent in the other two books), on grief, depression, trauma, addiction and moving on, finding happiness even in the darkness and having the people you love next to you. My favourite character was Gemma in this book, but as you will see in the rest of the books, my opinion will change xD In any case, overall, this was really enjoyable and I am really glad I read it ♥ I recommend for starters on historical fantasy ♥ Until the next review, stay magical ♥~Mary ♥
2763335073	3.5 starsThis book had been on my TBR for ages and I’m so happy to say I finally read it!I must say that I was intrigued by all the spiritual/magical elements involved in the storyline but I was left with so many questions! I just wish we could have knows more instead of some bits and pieces that sometimes did not make a lot of sense. I’m sure in the next two books there will be a lot to learn about Gemma’s visions and her “magic”.The characters were just okay. I liked Gemma and also Kartik, even though I did not understand his exact role in the story, he was always on the sidelines and I would have loved to see him more involved.The other girls weren’t very nice. Ann was kind of a pushover and could be easily influenced by the others. In the end Felicity revealed her true nature and almost got everyone killed. I don’t know how they can still be friends after how she behaved. Pippa wasn’t nice but I think she was the only one who had some kind of character development and I was happy to see her making a choice for herself. I’m definitely going to read the second book in the series.
3818591180	I would have loved this had I still been a Young Adult. Instead the YA elements got on my nerves. I don’t remember having this problem with the Diviners!#itsnotyouit’sme.
3524686748	4'5 ★vid rev will be available on October, 14, 2020 here https://youtu.be/6cOw7XYU5gU
3488444252	4 stelline piene.Libba Bray colpisce ancora! Dopo aver letto e amato The Diviners, dovevo assolutamente recuperare la prima trilogia dell'autrice.Una grande e terribile bellezza è un ottimo primo volume, che mette delle buone basi per ciò che accadrà nel resto della saga.Se dovessi descriverla in poche parole, direi che è Bridgerton che incontra un romanzo gotico. Può sembrare una combo assurda, ma vi giuro che ha senso e funziona! Infatti, da un lato abbiamo la parte in cui Gemma e altri personaggi femminili si formano al collegio Spence per diventare le perfette dame inglesi dell'epoca vittoriana. Mentre dall'altra si sviluppa un mistero intricato, collegato alla scuola e al sovrannaturale. Trovo che sia un romanzo decisamente innovativo e progressista per l'epoca in cui è uscito, ovvero il 2005. Ho apprezzato davvero molto come Libba Bray ha rappresentato la figura femminile, trasmettendo l'importantissimo messaggio che una donna non deve essere relegata al ruolo di donna e madre. È stato interessante e di ispirazione vedere come Gemma, Felicity, Pippi e Ann si svincolino dal cliché di "angelo del focolare" imposto dalla società vittoriana. "Women who have power are always feared."Quanta verità in questa frase.Inoltre, all'interno del romanzo è rappresentata parte della comunità LGBTQ+, poiché c'è una coppia lesbo. Non posso specificare a chi mi sto riferendo, perché questa rivelazione è correlata a un altro grande plot twist. Comunque, mi ha fatto incredibilmente piacere per le stesse motivazioni sopra elencate: non è scontato trovare una coppia f/f in un libro del 2005. Poi certo, a livello di rappresentazione non è così approfondita, ma per l'epoca già che ci fosse un accenno significa tantissimo. Rimanendo in ambito amoroso, all'inizio temevo ci fosse un insta love tra due personaggi. Invece, credo proprio che sarà un enemies to lovers AND I'M READY FOR IT! Poi, ho avuto anche i miei momenti da Signora in Giallo, perché ho indovinato diversi colpi di scena.Infine, non ho dato le 5 stelle in quanto la parte fantasy non è troppo approfondita. Ma ci può stare, perché si tratta del primo della trilogia, e conoscendo Libba Bray, sono certa che lo amplierà nei prossimi volumi. Assolutamente consigliato! "Because you don't notice the light without a bit of shadow. Everything has both dark and light. You have to play with it till you get it exactly right.""But we can’t live in the light all of the time. You have to take whatever light you can hold into the dark with you."
26900475	Gemma isn’t your typical sixteen year old. Most girls her age have been brought up in London’s society of gossip and lavish balls, but not Gemma. She has had a most unconventional upbringing in India. Yet she yearns to be in London, and the topic is often the start of arguments between her and her mother.Gemma’s wish becomes a reality when she has a vision of her mother’s death which comes true, and she is sent back to London and enrolled at Spence, an academy for girls. Gemma is uncertain of her visions and what they hold, but she will soon find out.Gemma has a hard time making friends at Spence, but an unexpected twist of events land her into good graces with Felicity, the powerful leader of a spiteful clique.Gemma discovers that her visions are more than what they seem they are in fact a doorway to other realms. She is warned to keep her visions at bay, but doesn’t understand why.Gemma becomes friends with members of the clique and they start their own club which they call the Order. The girls from the Order soon find themselves visiting these other realms with Gemma. Only to discover that the innocence of the realm is clouded by an evil that wishes to have Gemma for itself.The first synopsis I read of A Great and Terrible Beauty didn’t interest me at all. After hearing so many good things about the book, I decided to give it a chance. Now that I read it, I’m mad at myself for waiting so long! The storyline kept me hungry for more! The characters were believable, everyone knows someone who is like Felicity, Pippa and Ann. I loved Bray’s take on the 19th century’s society, sexuality and even the teen issues, that aren’t so different from ones we face today. And yet the supernatural element takes it to a whole other level of enjoyment.
1105601165	This is the sort of book that, if you chose not to take it too seriously, can be a really fun read.I personally adore the steampunk genre, especially the angsty, steamy young adult steampunk genre, so I ended up enjoying this book. I do, however, see why a lot of people didn't.The characters are all silly schoolgirls making stupid schoolgirl decisions. There are a number of points where you wish you were there just to reach over and slap some of the characters.Also, I felt some parts of the story were very underdeveloped. After she left India, Gemma never talked about India which kind of bothered me. She grew up there, spent her whole life there, but mentioned it maybe three times throughout the course of the book.And Kartik. Let's talk about Kartik. I feel very strongly that his character could have been so much more than what it turned out to be. He was interesting like the first time you met him, and then after that he appeared at the most random parts of the story. And he just never felt clever enough. Like a kid like that who works for these fancy magic people and stealthily pretends to be a Romanian gypsy ought to have my respect, but he doesn't, because I feel all he ever did was bound around the woods like a fool.And even though the whole realms thing is the main plot of this series, I've found myself flipping through the realms parts just to get back to the regular Victorian go of things.Libba did do an excellent job with both the Victorian and the boarding school aspects of this book, and I think if it weren't for either of those things, I wouldn't have ended up liking this.I do feel like four stars is the smallest bit too high for this, but oh, well. It is.
134915844	After several years, I finally managed to reread this book. This time around, I had greater faith in Bray after having read her Diviners series to the end. I did like it better, too. I feel like I better understood the narrative decisions that Bray was making. However, I still think that the book fell into a few too many Orientalist traps. Bray does a good thing in trying to make this book diverse, but the problem that she runs into is that there isn't quite enough diversity. This means that any characters that are not Anglo-Saxon English seem exotic and strange. When you add in the gender dynamics of the book (young English women reaching for liberation, both socially and sexually) the racial dynamics become even more frustrating. Overall, I do think this was a good book, and I will try to continue the series. But I have to say that this book did earn the criticism I initially leveled at it--but that a wider perspective has also improved my reaction to it.Original Review, published Dec 2010:Orientalist trash.This was, without a doubt, one of the most irritating books I've ever read. It continues and reinforces Orientalist characterizations without a single qualm. As a scholar of nineteenth-century British literature, I'm used to seeing Orientalist tropes used in books from my period. While they are regrettable, they're also part and parcel of the time in which they were written. While this novel may have been set in nineteenth-century Victorian India and England, there was no need for Bray to continue those same tropes. As this is a fantasy novel, that sort of realism in the setting was not necessary, especially when it is never condemned within the novel.It's been six years since I read this book, and it still makes me angry. Sometimes, I think I would like to reread it just to confirm that it was as hateful as I first thought. However, that tends to be a passing urge. Life is simply too short to waste on bad books--especially when I have a dissertation to write.Oh, if you need to understand what Orientalism is, look to this book: Orientalism by Edward W. Said.
393169824	It gets 2 stars because I reserve the 1 star rating to books I seriously hate. This was a vey boring book and I just wasn't interested in it from beginning to end. Safe to say I won't be continuing with the series.
316670883	This book surprised me, in a good way though. I liked the mix of historical/science fiction. The ending was really great and surprising! Can't wait for the next one!
1615971250	5.0 StarsI forgot just how much I love this novel. This was technically a re-read, since I originally read A Great and Terrible Beauty over ten years ago in high school. However, I'm not sure if my teenage self fully appreciated this masterpiece of storytelling.I am very impressed by Bray's ability to write such an engrossing and thematic story. The novel delves into feminine issues from power to sexuality through the lens of Victorian era. As a genre crossover between historical fiction and fantasy, this story has a wonderfully ominous and Gothic atmosphere. I particularly loved the characters All four girls were complex, flawed and authentic. I appreciate that Bray was not afraid to show the ugly sides of female friendships, often depicting the Victorian version of mean girls. I would highly recommend this is such a well-written Young Adult novel to teenage and adult readers alike.I am really looking forward to finish reading the last two books in the Gemma Doyle trilogy. I have no idea why I waited so long!
1994942251	"In every end, there is also a beginning."I am currently crying. I was so wrapped up in the characters of this book. I felt like these girls were my real friends. I felt I too was walking into a portal of something beautiful every time I began to turn the pages.This will definitely be a book I cherish and read again and again. ❤️
128303419	This is one of those books I'd like to call the "Koh-i-noor-of-Young-Adult", because after delving through cow shit of current YA books— there is always one that does restore hope inside me despite the Mary Sue heroines, bland/abusive love interests, lack of plot and lack of research when it comes to historical eras in which the book is set in(yes, I'm looking at you Cassandra Clare!) *spoilers ahead*The story follows the story of Gemma Doyle, a girl who has been brought up in 19th Century British-Ruled India all her life, until the dawning of her 17th birthday when she sees a vision of her mother's death. Traumatised, she is sent back to England and enrolled at Spence— a finishing school for young women where she does not get off to a good start, having been tricked by Felicity's clique and knows that she is being followed by a mysterious young man. but when she comes across a diary of a young girl who died in the fire of the East Wing a few years ago, learns about The Order— a society of women who possessed great power, she forges unlikely friendships with Felicity, Pippa and Ann, and together they discover The Realms— a place of great power but until their astonishment is shadowed by a menace, the same one that killed her mother... I genuinely loved this book and this series in general. The setting of Victorian London was unique & interesting, thus catching my interest because I consider it to be oene of my favourite historical eras. I applaud Libba Bray for doing her research, the setting was mostly accurate and the dialogue was suited to that time although it can sound a bit forced at times, but nonetheless it was genuine. I also really liked the concept of The Realms, the previous books I have read about that had the whole realms concept was Evermore which did not go down well for countless reasons. The whole idea of the Realms was really amazing, because it was a combination of a wide range of mythology as well as other fantastastical creatures:— such as the parralel between Pippa and Persephone, as well as the huntress and the Gorgon. It's also the place where The Order ruled and contained a great deal of magic. Alternately, exists the Winterlands— where there are corrupted souls and dark creatures which work for Circe, her mother's murderer. Even though the Winterlands has been depicted of being the 'darker' of the two, the Realms also have an eerie edge to it because the creatures come across as deceitful at times which causes conflict of the good kind. With books I have read before, I never really felt inclined to read on because of lack of conflict but Libba Bray does this flawlessly to create an engaging, edge-of-the-seat plot. This series is not at all predictable and I was genuinely shocked at some of the 'surprises' because you know... they are supposed to cause the reader to be in awe and Libba Bray did this so well. Another thing I adored was the fact that I finally came across a likable heroine— Gemma Doyle had her flaws but she carried herself well and I adored her snarky comments- she had a personality which made her likable. She wasn't infatuated with Kartik, it didn't become her life or anything, yes— it was a little weakness at times but it didn't ruin her character and that's the kind of heroines that I want. I also loved how the romance between Gemma/Kartik was not the main aspect of the story but rather a subplot which caused conflict. However my favourite character had to be Felicity, initially I hated her a lot— she was a total bitch but she grew on me- she was eccentric, witty and strong, what I also liked was her complex characterization— she has a dark past which makes me empathise as to why she acts the way she does. It did leave me devastated and I had tears in my eyes at points. However there were somethings which made me dislike the book at times:— ± Kartik— I didn't hate him, but he was just so shady and untrustworthy so I didn't really feel attracted to him but he did have potential at times when he didn't let his 'fate' overcome his natural self, but his shady nature just seemed to outweigh it so I could never come to like him. I didn't hate him because Gemma wasn't the smitten kitten around him, didn't let him dominate her and their romance wasn't integral to the story.± Ann— I felt sorry for her being bullied by Felicity's clique of shallow twits and how she longed to fit in, but at times she really did get on my nerves because she let her insecurities get the best of her. Even if she didn't have the high-class background, she shouldn't let that ruin her potential. She didn't strike me as a charismatic character- just one of those background characters. I don't love her but I don't severely dislike her either. She just wasn't anything special. ± Pippa— I. Hate. This. Bitch. So. Fucking. Much. She was such an annoying, shallow twit— she was selfish and was only focused on one thing: finding her prince/knight in shining armour. I didn't see what importance she had in the story, she was just there to be the fool. The whole prince charming thing annoyed me beyond belief. Like are you honestly going to spend every hour of your life desiring a fictional figure? She was so narrow-minded and foolish that I was in disbelief as to why Felicity liked her so much, I whooped in joy when she got bitchslapped by Felicity. I just really did not like how she did something foolish but never ever blamed herself, but rather she took it out on others. I've never seen the whole intrigue of the Felicity/Pippa ship— Felicity does not deserve her, at all. I'll complain about her later because she is the only character that constantly digresses in each book but I don't want to spoill you. However I was having a party when she fucking died, no I didn't feel bad, I was euphoric thinking that she was dead and gone, hopefully burning in hell. Only, to be metaphorically bitchslapped when she appears back in Rebel Angels, all well again, complaining her ass off and being her narcissistic, idiotic self. You're being happy about the fact that people cried at your funeral? Bitch, please spare me such fuckery.Overall, it was a great book— rich history, great plot, & mostly likable characters. I'll give this a 4.5.
1745209190	I came into this with little expectations, and I ended up very impressed. The plot was very entertaining and, besides a few teenage(ish) moments, I enjoyed the characters too. I'm also very happy that there wasn't a lot of romance - it was one of my fears when I started this. But I had a few minor problems with this, like how the gypsies were presented and regarded in the story. So 4 stars.
998630460	While I worked at the bookstore I kept coming across this young adult book with a very gorgeous cover. So when I saw it at the library a few weeks later I knew it was just meant to be. I remember being absorbed from the moment I opened the cover. I only had to wait a few months for the second book (Rebel Angel) but the third (The Sweet Far Thing) wouldn't be out for two years. By that time I was busy graduating from University and figuring out my life. I did manage to purchase a copy though, so good on me. Recently I read the first two books in Bray's newest series, The Diviners, (second book is Lair of Dreams) and I loved them. It got me thinking that I never finished the Gemma Doyle Trilogy that I had enjoyed so much. My goal this year was to reread the first two and finally read the last book...A GREAT AND TERRIBLE BEAUTY(Gemma Doyle Trilogy: #1)Written by Libba Bray(Narrated by Josephine Bailey)2003; Simon & Schuster (403 Pages) (Audio length: 11 hours and 13 minutes)Genre: historical fiction, young adult, romance, paranormal RATING: ★★★★★Gemma is still trying to come to terms with foreseeing her mother's death, and then having to see it come true. Her brother and grandmother think she should leave India to attend Spence Academy for Girls in England. As if Gemma wasn't having a bad enough time the girls at the school have decided to snub her and make her an outcast. Her roommate is a scholarship student who sides with the popular girls even though she too is made fun of by them. The tide turns when she saves and in turns blackmails, Felicity the leader of the pack. Trying to prove herself to Felicity and beautiful Pippa, Gemma brings along Ann and reveals some of her secrets and they soon find themselves involved in a supernatural mystery that could leave them in great peril.I listened to A Great and Terrible Beauty on audio this time just for something different and really enjoyed Bailey's narration. Her impression of Ann's nasally voice is spot-on, I think. This is a perfect example of a young adult novel that is for both teens and adults. There is nothing in this novel that is appropriate for a teen that watches young adult shows and movies. Yet the plot is intricate enough to keep an adult engrossed. Having just watched Penny Dreadful (definitely NOT for teens) I was geared up for the Victorian supernatural world. I enjoyed the characters - main and secondary - as they were each so different and realistic. I read this first when I was 24 and now at 35 I still would rate it a 5 star. I really fell into the world created by Bray.My Novelesque Blog
1388804646	Two words: it sucked.Gemma lives in India with her parents. When her mom suddenly died in a mysterious attack, her family sends her to England to be a proper lady. She meets a group of bitches and they form this secret group to travel in another dimension. A shit load of gossip happens about here. Then... Drama, drama, drama. Oh look a handsome young man. More drama. Oh shit Gemma meets her mother in the other world and now she has to fight of Circe. Little tiny ass twist here in the last 20 pages. Ah well, the end.Maybe I would've liked this a couple years back, but I really don't like it. Only thing I can possibly say that is special is the settings in India. I felt like I was there. That part was nice. But after that, the whole book went to shit with its humongous amount of FLUFF and DRAMA where this girl is rejected because she isn't of high class or this other girl is cornered because she isn't pretty. Really? Where's the action in the book? Oh right, in the last 20 pages! I feel like I've wasted so much of my time. *regrets*
279100525	Whoa, I read this in one sitting. There was just something about the mystery behind Mary and Sarah that had me flipping the pages. I love the boarding school setting and the realms and the magic that was involved. But most of it didn't keep to the plot, and even though it was mostly build-up to the end, I found it to be rather enjoyable. Libby's writing is very descriptive and tedious, and if you don't like that, then you'll have problems reading this. The characters are all so on point, they're just simply teenagers living in Victorian England and I love seeing how their futures were already mapped out for them. Finding a husband is the ultimate goal and it astounds me that a family will give away their daughter just to pay off their own debts. It's terrible! But that was the way of the world back then and it was refreshing to read. I loved the friendships that were formed and how there was hardly no romance. A girl doesn't need a man to be happy, after all.
1428877650	I remember reading this just after it was originally released, and I FREAKING LOVED IT. I also remembered it being a lot scarier than it was, and a lot darker. I love the care and consideration Libba Bray put into fleshing out the characters, the location, and the foundations of the story. I wish there was more action- I feel like the meat of the story is really in the last 100 pages, which isn't necessarily bad, but if I'd only just read the book for the first time I don't think I'd be as eager to pick up the next book in the trilogy. Because I only remember a few key elements of the series (but not when they occur) I know the story gets a lot more intense and exciting, but not when it gets more exciting. I'm really glad I decided to pick this series back up now, it's making me feel nostalgic and it's perfect winter reading. I hope the last two live up to the creepiness in my memory, otherwise I'll feel ridiculous for how scared I remember being!
1637081385	*3,5 tähteä*Huomaan jälleen, että salaperäisyys onnistuu aina vetämään minua puoleensa. Tykkäsin nimittäin tästä paljon ja nautin etenkin siitä miten salaperäisyyden lisäksi yliluonnollisuus ja historiallisuus yhdistyivät juoneen. Mukavan kevyttä ja nautinnollista eikä niin tyypillistä luettavaa YA:n puolelta. Miksi muita osia ei ole suomennettu?!
137434522	Terrible beginning, Great Ending. It made me think of Patricia Mckillip's Solstice Wood. That seemed like a very short review. Anyway, I guess that was just an answer to a previously-read-review. And it's true, the writing isn't that appealing, the characters are a hateful bunch of girls. Okay, I exagerate, they're not really hateful. Well, maybe a bit.! Ü But all you have to do is you've got to stick with it. It gets better halfway.!
1033975222	Major points for the nostalgia factor. I can't believe I read this so long ago...and also this was totally not my kind of book back then, so idk why I even read it. Very slow-moving but never boring for me. Definitely a historical fiction book for the pacing but the little bits of fantasy kept it interesting. I forgot so much of the plot that I feel like I'm reading for the first time, while also feeling very homey and familiar.
250470577	This definitely wasn't as exciting as I remember... I feel like nothing happened! No idea why I rated it 5 stars the first time. Her 'friends' annoyed me so much, and while I did enjoy the twist of (view spoiler)[her mother being Mary Dowd (hide spoiler)], I feel like the story was just lacking. And she hardly (view spoiler)[practiced the ability to open portals before she could do it easily (hide spoiler)]. I did like her honesty to her friends, it was something rare in a YA book.
192777484	Luego de la muerte de su madre en extrañas circunstancias, Gema Doyle es enviada desde la India a Inglaterra para a terminar sus estudios a una reconocida escuela para señoritas, donde conocerá tres chicas de distintas y opuestas personalidades: Ann, Pippa y Felicity. En su compañía comenzará una aventura que le llevará a conocer su verdadero origen y a desenterrar la magia ancestral que habita dentro de ella. Esto fortalecerá su amistad, pero, a su vez, abrirá un portal a un mundo exótico y peligroso, donde habitan enemigos inesperados y secretos inconfesables. Reseña Completa con imagenes, curiosidades y frases memorables en el post La Orden de la Academia Spence de Libba Bray o las señoritas victorianas deberían hacerle caso al Tio de Spiderman Hacia mucho tiempo que desea leer esta novela y la comencé con miedo horrible a que me decepcionara (*¿ya le dije que odie "Humo y Hueso”? Si ¿verdad? Bueno aquí vamos de nuevo… la odio con todo mi ser *), pero nop, no sucedió y superó mis expectativas. De hecho leí a full y sólo me demoré dos días en terminarla. Hacia mucho que me había llegado, fue una de mis primeras compras en Bookdepository, pero la forma en que está narrada me desencantó lo suficiente como para dejarla dormir en paz unos cuantos meses en mi estantería. Me explico, creo que la narración en primera persona esta sobrevalorada y con frecuencia me aburre. Si, hay novelas que quedan completamente estructuradas con la visión de un solo personaje, pero generalmente, casi siempre en mi experiencia, las historias se nutren mejor cuando existe un narrador omnisciente o si se nos provee del punto de vista de varios personajes. Además en este caso estaba narrado de una manera que en un primer momento me pareció un poco tosca, pero a la cual me acostumbré conforme pasabas las hojas y me encontraba con un nutrido vocabulario, frases y párrafos largos y bien construidos y una historia entretenida y coherente.La ambientación victoriana me gustó bastante, porque principalmente sirve como un convincente marco costumbrista a la historia. Las estrictas relaciones económico-sociales, las diversas concepciones sobre de moralidad y transgresión, la férrea estratificación social juegan a favor de la trama y nos ayudan a identificarnos con Gemma y sus amigas, adolescentes que buscan una libertad y autorealización en un mundo complejo, cosmopolita, y muchas veces hipócrita. La censura, la soledad y el rechazo están a la vuelta de la esquina y son el castigo para cualquier tipo de duda o insatisfacción. No es de extrañar que los personajes de Libba nos resulten confusos y muchas veces poco simpáticos. En un mundo donde ante todo se aprecia la apariencia y el abolengo, es normal que surjan personalidades para nada benévolas, competitivas, envidiosas y traicioneras. No queda de otra, debes sobrevivir como sea, aun cuando eso signifique traicionar tu propio ser o a los que confían en ti. Lo único que importa es idear formas ingeniosas para cubrir tus errores y tramar como conseguir o mantener un lugar en una sociedad que está pendiente de todos tus fracasos, lista para recriminar, ridiculizar o excluir según sea necesario. Pero al mismo tiempo estos defectos enmascaran una soledad y un miedo proporcional al esfuerzo, muchas veces erróneo o francamente malvado, que emplean para mantener lo que se logra mediante ellos. En todo caso, no estoy de acuerdo con esa conocida frase de Rousseau de “el hombre nace bueno y la sociedad lo corrompe”. Para convertiste en alguien torcido debes poseer aptitudes naturales, no basta con que el mundo te de con la puerta en la cara. Y en esta historia hay varias que no terminaran bien, estoy segura. Y no precisamente porqués vida fue pervertida por un Fagin ….Felicity es fría y calculadora, pero protectora con sus amigas. Pipa es frívola y caprichosa, pero fiel y constante. Ann es resentida, pero dulce y comprensiva y Gemma, es contradictoria, pero fuerte e inteligente. La verdad es que pensé muchas veces que con esa amigas… uff…quien quiere enemigos. Compadecí muchas veces a la pobre Gemma por estar atrapada en semejante nido de víboras. Pero, al final,el grupito se ganó mi corazón. Son personajes ricos, que si bien corresponden a ciertos estereotipos, fácilmente se alejan de ellos mostrando una profundidad y un conflicto, tanto personal como generacional, muy completo y atrayente.Felicity, con toda su rabia y egoísmo es mi favorita. Tiene algo de primitivo y salvaje que me encanta. Ella la lleva 100%. Me gustan muchos los personajes que retratan mujeres de temperamento fuertes, que no tienen miedo de aceptar lo que son y luchar por lo que quieren. Bueno, a ella se le pasa la mano mucho al infinito, pero no esperaba una monjita de la caridad de una chica que culpa a otra de robar un costoso anillo, solo por un deseo esnob de perjudicarla y hacerle saber su lugar en la escala social. ¡Perra! La trama en si es bastante lineal y con muchos lugares comunes, pero está tan bien llevada y escrita, enriquecida con millones de pequeños detalles (como el de la sesión espiritista, muy en boga en esa época o las alusiones a los pintores prerafaelistas, a las leyendas celtas y a los poemas románticos de Tennyson), que su lectura se hace fácil, rápida y amena, sin que ello reste interés o intriga al libro. Si duda es uno de los mejores libros que he leído este año, aun cuando peca al utilizar varios estereotipos (tanto de personajes como de situaciones) y por lo predecible de ciertas situaciones, pero estos errores no tanto terribles como para derrumbar todo el tinglado.Ahora pasemos a los viajes psicotrópicos xD! y a la evasión. Si he de ser sincera, los capítulos en los que Gemma y sus amigas experimenta este mundo alterado al que llaman “Los Reinos” me inquietaban bastante, pero al mismo tiempo me producen una curiosidad morbosa. Me parecían alarmantemente cercanas a las percepciones que relatan las personas que se desestructuran mentalmente, construyendo mundos ilusorios a los cuales escapar. Brr! Pienso que para la autora los temas de la evasión y el peligros y la seducción de este tipo de vivencias es un tema importante, por el que todos hemos pasado a esa edad. Ella sumerge a las chicas en un mundo hermoso, peligroso y primitivo, que brinda tanto sosiego como una falsa seguridad. Con un gran poder viene una gran responsabilidad, sabias palabras, lástima que a finales del siglo XIX no pudiesen ver Spiderman…
2812372310	Ik denk dat ik dit als tv-serie leuker had gevonden, dan was het voor mij wat meer tot leven gekomen. Het begin en het eind gingen vlot, maar het middenstuk ging zo langzaam dat ik bijna 2 weken bezig ben geweest met dit boek, wat voor mijn doen best lang is. Jammer dat het me toch niet zo boeide als dat ik had verwacht!
5544431273	Der Anfang der Geschichte hat mich (für ein Jugendbuch) noch sehr gekriegt. Viele Themen, die Mädels in diesem Alter umtreiben und auch welche, über die sie sich Gedanken machen sollten, werden angesprochen. Allerdings wurden die Beweggründe für manche Taten der Protagonistin immer unglaubwürdiger. Das Ende hat mich dann leider gar nicht mehr überzeugt.
5596639499	I probably missed my window to appreciate this for its most potential, but I still had a good time. I wanted to give this a shot, because I read a short story in an anthology set in this world, and it intrigued me. But the story here, was a little to slow for me. I know it's part of a series, and more answers will come later, but not much really happened at all in this introduction, so I think I'm going to pass.
1406356776	2.5 starsI don't know how I feel about this book. It's fast but it also gets boring real fast.Gemma is not that smart, but if you compare her to the other girls then she's a genius. The entire group is actually really difficult to tolerate.Something was cute but I don't think it was enough to make me want to continue the series.
1404908532	3, 5 tähteä.Koukuttava ja salaperäinen. Historiallinen kirjallisuus ja fantasia ovat kaksi lempigenreäni, joten ei ollut yllätys että pidin tästä kirjasta. Rakastan viktoriaanisen ajan Englantia ja muutenkin 1800-lukua! Ihan täysin en kuitenkaan rakastunut tähän kirjaan.
2522736626	I waited a long time to read this book because of all the hype the series was getting, back when it was super popular. I guess I am just tired of being disappointed falling into all the hype of a supposed fantastic book or series. It has happened to the best of us. Well this one did not disappoint! It truly is fantastic and I am so glad that I have decided to jump on board and become fully immersed into this story.The plot is amazing, engaging, exciting and super energetic. It is written in a great era as well, where so many things were unacceptable for women, but so very tempting. Tempting and forbidding enough for women to cling to and try to change them. I love that! I also love the writing style of this author so much, but I knew that already when I read The Diviners. I just found myself lost within the story so many times. It is that feeling of being lost that you never want to be rescued from.The characters are absolutely stunning. Their development is amazing and I am sure they will grow even more over the course of this series. I can't say enough about Gemma. She is strong and brave. And can I say she doesn't take anything from anyone. She knows what she wants, she knows what is right and true, and she is not afraid to let people know. She is a warrior! I can't wait to see how far she goes in this story. I am sure it will be pretty far. Her sidekicks, Pippa, Ann and Felicity are also great characters that steadily grow on readers as they progress through the story.I recommend this book to anyone who loves a good action packed fantasy, because this one has it all, a little something for everyone. I really don't think too many people would be disappointed with this one. I so look forward to the other books in this series, and will hopefully get to them all very soon.
1997931620	"Oh, honestly, this is the worst attempt at a gothic novel I've ever read. All we're missing are creaking castle floors and a heroine in danger of losing her virtue." I had half a mind to DNF this book and I'm disappointed that I didn't.It was very boring. It took 90% of the book for some action to happen. And by that time, I had already lost all interest in the Spence girls. I couldn't care less about what happens to them, (view spoiler)[whether they would live or not. But I was lowkey hoping that they wouldn't survive just so it wouldn't have a sequel (hide spoiler)] This basically felt like a filler book which was weird because it was the first book in the series. The author is clearly setting up the characters for a bigger adventure in the next book but it dragged the story so much. A huge chunk of this novel could be cut and it would deliver a better story. Instead, we get a 400 page book about annoying girls.I love it when characters are flawed. It makes them very relateable and human. But the characters here were just plain annoying. They were very one dimensional. They were spoiled and I don't believe that they had actually cared for each other. They only cared for themselves. Gemma was such a bad main character. There was no growth and development that happened to her character whatsoever.Overall, the title was correct. It was terrible.
