5945959075	“Boys in the Valley” by Philip Fracassi is truly a hell of a read that I didn’t see coming at all. This was a monthly group read for one of the groups I’m a part of on Goodreads and my goodness, I’m beyond glad I decided to read this because it was awesome for the most part.Now, before I jump into my review, there are a ton of trigger warnings I found while reading. They are…- Domestic abuse- Child abuse- Suicide- Self-harm- Orphans/Orphanage- Violence against kids- Violence against priests- Violence against animals (horses)If any of these trigger you, please do not read this novel as things get very graphic and disturbing. Moving along, this was the first novel I’ve ever read by Fracassi and wow, his writing style is excellent. It’s so good, he took religious horror to incredible new heights with this one.The intro was nothing short of brutal, horrific, and set the tone nice and early for me. I love it when novels do that since it gives me a great feeling that I’m in for a rollercoaster of a ride. I immediately got a sense of dread, sadness, and all the atmospheric vibes of being an orphan raised in a strict religious orphanage. I legit felt I was there so again, Fracassi nailed that aspect of this horror novel.Speaking of which, the demonic twist that happened at the start was beyond wild. That was pretty unique and launched several crazy horror moments which I loved. As I was reading, I got major “Lord of the Flies” vibes with a religious, demonic twist. Felt as if “Lord of the Flies” and “The Exorcist” had a demon child and it was set in an orphanage. All the characters I met along the way were good and fleshed out pretty well. From the different priests to all the distinct orphans, I enjoyed them all.While reading I did notice some parts dragged on at around the 30% mark. I’m glad things didn’t fizzle out too much but there was just a bit too much dialogue at this point that took me a bit out of the reading experience. However, things did pick up nicely around the 50% mark where some insanely creepy and extremely savage moments happened.Don’t worry, I won’t spoil anything for you but WOW, one of the most horrific events I’ve ever read in a novel occurred a bit after the halfway point. That was incredible, unexpected, and delivered beyond my wildest imagination.I loved Fracassi’s way of writing that part as well as all the demonic possessions, events, and pivotal moments in the plot. I made many weird faces while reading some of the more gruesome parts as these moments were brilliantly written and executed flawlessly.That also wasn’t the only insanely scary/vile part that happened, either. There are a few more that were spectacular in all their evil glory. “Boys in the Valley” gave me a ton of old-school horror vibes with the way it was written and just hits you out of nowhere to deliver some killer thrills and all sorts of emotions. It’s all the sign of a great author as this was next-level demonic horror.The race to the end was pretty suspenseful as I had no idea how all this was going to end and wow, that was quite the ending. It capped off a fantastic story with all sorts of demonic showdowns that ended in a blaze of glory. The emotions a reader will feel at the end of this one will leave a mark on your soul. I guarantee it.I give “Boys in the Valley” by Philip Fracassi a 4/5 as this was a solid novel with a good cast of characters, tons of demonic violence, and a satisfying ending. Several times this became a genuine pageturner but also had moments where things dragged on. Regardless, I had a lot of fun reading this novel and would recommend it to anyone who wants a religious horror novel written in a way that hasn’t been done before. That’s a big reason why this delivered and if it wasn’t for the few parts that dragged on while reading, this would have been a perfect read for me. Either way, I am keeping an eye on Fracassi and his future work as he’s an author to follow in horror.
4512284357	This is the scariest coming of age horror I’ve read since Stephen King’s IT. 100 pages or so into this book and it is all horror ALL THE TIME. Full review soon
5409764048	My Reviews Can Also Be Found On: Twitter - Amazon - Storygraph - The Book Review CrewOh my goodness this book was horrifyingly terrific, my first by this author and it was awesome. This is a story about an orphanage, run by the Catholic Church, that becomes the site of demonic possession. This isn't your typical good vs. evil story as the demons possess many children, and even though it has Lord of the Flies and The Exorcist vibes, Fracassi makes it uniquely his own. This was an emotional story as I couldn't decide if the lives the children were living at the orphanage was the true horror story or if it was being possessed by demons...Are the adults, mostly priests, the true demons? This is weird to say about a horror story but it is very character driven as we learn about the harsh reality of an orphan life in the early twentieth century. I was captivated by the large cast of characters, their backstories and their current situation. I couldn't help but feel for them and cheer them on as they fight for their lives against the massive, hidden evil. I was on the edge of my seat the entire time I was reading this. It is a very fast-paced, easy read and I loved the ending. I will definitely be reading more of this author's work. If you like historical fiction with a horror twist and a little gore thrown in this is a book for you!Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for the Advance Readers Copy.
5314605788	horror is not my preferred genre, but ‘lord of the flies’ is one of my favourite classics, so i was willing to give this a shot. and i have to say, while i didnt hate this, i also didnt love it. what makes ‘lord of the flies’ work is the realistic decline of humanity, how boys can lose themselves to chaos and power. thats what makes it so compelling. i think if this had followed similar themes, i would have enjoyed it more. however, the driving force is this is (view spoiler)[demonic possession (hide spoiler)] and i just couldnt get behind it. its just not something i personally find entertaining, spooky, or believable. which is quite a shame because i actually really enjoyed the writing and the characters.but readers who are more open to things relating to (view spoiler)[exorcisms (hide spoiler)] should enjoy this one!thanks, tor publishing, for the ARC.↠ 2.5 stars
5480901268	ARC provided by the publisher—Orbit Books—in exchange for an honest review. 4.5/5 starsWell, Boys in the Valley was so good. It was surprisingly so good. “All of life is a great gift,” he says. “Not because of what it gives us, but because of what it allows us to give others.” I read a horror novel probably once or twice a year. That is not to say I don’t like reading the genre, as I do read plenty of horror manga, but my preference tends to lean toward fantasy, sci-fi, and historical fiction novels more than horror novels. But I’m determined to read at least one horror novel every year, and this year, due to the unmissable praises for Boys in the Valley I saw online, I decided to pick it as my horror read. Horror reviewers and authors such as the like of legendary Stephen King highly praised it, and wow… I never read any book by Fracassi before, and Boys in the Valley might become the biggest pleasant surprise of the year for me. “The harder you fight to join the path of your choosing, the more the decision will resonate within you.” When I read Boys in the Valley, I didn’t know anything about the content of it. Literally nothing. And I do believe my reading experience was improved because of that. If you want more details regarding its premise, I recommend you check out the official blurb on Goodreads or Amazon. But to give you a minimum pitch, several readers have mentioned this is Lord of the Flies meet The Exorcist with a dose of Midnight Mass, and I think that is an accurate comparison. It did not take long for me to feel the oozing and ominous atmosphere from the narrative, and the story took a darker turn with each page turned. Mark my words. Boys in the Valley is intense, gory, and brutal. But in my opinion, what made it stand out is how the themes of hope strive to shine through all the darkness. I am not what you would call a religious person. However, I can totally understand the power and necessity of faith and the irreplaceable strength it can bring to many people. I think these themes were reflected wonderfully without ever feeling like it was preaching, and I loved that. “Frederick Douglass once wrote, ‘The soul that is within me no man can degrade.’ Now, I’m shifting the context a bit. He wasn’t referring to a life in Christ, but he was talking about the power of humanity, about rising above the oppression of those who had forced him into slavery. And he was talking, I believe, about being true to himself, to the man he was at his core… I’d like to think his statement applies here, as well. What I’m trying to express, Peter, is that whatever you decide to do with your life, you must have faith that your soul will always remain your own. It cannot be degraded, not if you stay true to yourself.” Fracassi’s way of keeping the tension running was incredible. The first 100 pages were pulse-pounding at the right moments, but once we moved past the 100-page mark, it was a non-stop thrill and chaos to the end. I never felt bored reading Boys in the Valley. If anything, I wanted more pages out of it. Due to my constant exposure to reading fantasy and sci-fi tomes, I did feel Boys in the Valley was slightly too short, and the concluding sequence was a bit too soon, but these are just minor issues due to my own preference. And it needs to be mentioned the horror and terrifying aspect of the circumstances certainly never felt diminished. They actually felt more genuine because Fracassi always remembered to make sure the fear and stressful moments the characters felt were palpable and also relatable to his readers. When you see someone so mentally strong break down in tears, it is not a pleasant thing to witness because you will know just how stressful and tenuous the pain and pressure the individual endured. And Fracassi explained it so well and simply here: “To see him so visibly, dramatically shaken is like seeing an adult cry for the first time. Seeing someone—someone you had thought unbreakable—splinter and crack. I still recall the first time I saw my mother cry. It was the first time in my life I felt truly exposed. Truly at risk. Because if our parents can be hurt, or shaken, or brought down by despair, what hope have we?” Considering that Boys in the Valley is a horror novel, I expected a bloody, creepy, and unnerving atmosphere conjured from the text, and in these, Fracassi succeeded. What I didn’t expect, however, was how fast I became invested in the characters. Peter, David, Father Andrew, Brother Johnson, Father Poole, and all the other characters were well-written characters. Note that I didn’t say they’re all likable. But well-written characters don’t mean they have to be lovable. Some characters can be well-written even though they exist to serve the purpose of being hated by readers. But rest assured, it is not difficult to like Peter’s mentorship under Andrew, his friendship with David, or his innocent crush toward the only woman in the novel: Grace. It is precisely because of how quickly I felt invested in the character’s journey that the horror and intensity felt more terrifying. I kept turning the pages to find out how Peter and the other protagonists would rise and survive their ordeals, and I was not disappointed by what I read. “First of all… be careful you don’t confuse evil with despair. One reason tragedy exists is to teach us how to help others, help others learn how to find a way through their own dark time, through a journey of growth. As a priest, you must always be in the light, Peter. You must find courage inside yourself when you feel there is none. It is in these darkest moments that you will discover your true self. When you do that, when you discover this new you through life’s most difficult trials, only then will you find salvation. Only then will you lead others to that same salvation, guide them safely along their own dark paths.” Whether you are a fan of the horror genre or not, I believe Boys in the Valley by Philip Fracassi is absolutely worth the read if you are in the reading mood for an unputdownable, scary, and tension-filled standalone novel. It is not a surprise now why so many horror writers and reviewers praised the hell out of this book, and I think it's only a matter of time before Boys in the Valley became more popular. And yes, this novel would work so well being adapted into a horror movie or a one-season mini-series. I can definitely see it happening someday, and Fracassi deserved it. “I like to hope that, ultimately, these tests of character will strengthen us, versus weaken; that these storms of conflict, of struggle, will brighten our inner light and make us beacons to those in need, and not darken our minds, hurl us into madness and despair, lead us to defeat and certain death.” You can order this book from: Amazon | Blackwells (Free International shipping)You can find this and the rest of my reviews at Novel Notions | I also have a Booktube channelSpecial thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for giving me extra support towards my passion for reading and reviewing!My Patrons: Alfred, Aliysa, Andrew, Andrew W, Annabeth, Arliss, Barbara, Biskit, Brad, Cade, Chris, Cullen, Dan, David, Dernerror, Donna, Donuts, Dylan, Edward, Elaine, Elias, Ellen, Frank, Garrick, Gary, Gregory, Hamad, Helen, Jenn, Jesse, Jimmy Nutts, Joie, Kristina, Lara, Lourdes, Luis, Melinda, Michael, Michael, Mike, Miracle, Mordie, Nicholas, Norbert, Radiah, Redmischief, RCT, Samuel, Sarah, Sarah, Scott, Shawn, Tori, Tracy, Trish, TS, Wendy, Wick, Xero, Yuri, Zoe.
5491775025	Good Versus Evil!It is the early 1900's when little Peter who is nine years old experiences a horror that no child should ever experience and it will be forever burned in mind, heart and dreams when he loses the warmth and safety of his family all in one night. Peter will be sent to a boys orphanage run by priests which will become his home and family until he turns eighteen unless he runs away as so many other boys had done in the past.The story begins seven years later where Peter is one of the oldest boys among a group of 30 or more. Peter has always been a good boy and has become a leader and role model without even trying and all the younger children respect and look to him for comfort and guidance when needed. It's a very hard life that the boys live. The head priest is strict beyond words and if any of the rules are broken, there are no excuses accepted and the punishments given out are more than cruel. So this is why all the boys help one another to avoid breaking a rule.Sadly, the more children there are the less food they get to eat and each meal is so sparse that hunger is always in their minds as the sounds of stomachs groan and rumble night after night. The boys are assigned daily chores from morning until supper time along with daily mass and prayer time. This is the life they live until their thin and sometimes frail bodies leave the orphanage. They reside in Pennsylvania so the winters are very brutal with many blizzards and the orphanage can be snowed in for weeks at a time. Every winter that passes brings illness with the freezing temperatures and the boys worry if they will lose another member of their small knit family since many the sickly children will not survive until the springtime.One night a group of men including the sheriff bring a wounded man to their door begging for help from the priests to help save the man's life. The priests discover an assortment of occult carvings on the man's skin along with a gunshot wound but the priests know he needs spiritual help far more than physical care. Awful, strange and hideous sounds come from the man and the inhuman strength he exudes as he breaks the restraints and attacks a deputy and a few others brings death to the orphanage and an unseen evil presence will be left behind to assault the spiritually weak and it will gain strength in its numbers as two groups will emerge where the boys will be pitted against one another while the evil grows quickly fighting for dominance and will not leave any boy or priest untouched by it's malevolent power.This book was terrifying in the creeping of insideous evil that I could feel through the pages that I read. The book was had such a frightening effect on me that I was afraid to read it in the.middle of the night. I haven't experienced those feelings with reading a book in a very long time. It's such a difference between being afraid and feeling creeped out which I find in reading many horror books. The novel was downright horrifyingly scary! This book will appeal to any horror lover but if you were raised Catholic and especially if you attended parochial schools years ago then this book may have a big impact on the reader as far as the sinister evil attacking a Catholic orphanage and all those within because of their belief systems between good and evil.and the cruelty and abuse these children suffered on a daily basis. Please, don't get me wrong you don't have to be religious to understand or be entertained by the story because I can't imagine any reader not being affected by this very, very creepy book. The beautiful, atmospheric writing by "Philip Fracassi" was a complete reading experience. The characters were so relatable and my heartstrings were continuously tugged and pulled throughout the novel from page one until the very last page. I felt so many different emotions while reading this book while feeling tears welling up in my eyes so many times. The writing was absolutely stellar! Fracassi did not overwrite or be repetitive with his descriptions yet he captured all the essence of youth and innocence combined with the coming of age to these boys that I felt I was right there with the boys experiencing their pain and terror and I was so emotionally caught up with each child that it hurt my heart. An amazing effect that the powerful writing had on myself. This book will be an unforgettable read for me and I just can't say enough about the exquisite writing and flow of words that brought out so many unexpected feelings and the fear factor, wow, wow, wow! I hope this talented author continues to write many stories along this line and hopefully this will be on the bestseller list for a.long, long time.I highly, highy recommend this horror novel!I sincerely want to thank the author "Philip Francassi" the publisher "Tor Publishing Group/ Tor Fire" and Netgalley for the opportunity to read this fantastic book and any thoughts or opinions express are unbiased and mine alone!I have given a rating of 5 TERRIFYING AND HEART SHATTERING 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟 STARS!!
5905820261	¡¡Qué bestialidad de novela y qué bien escribe Fracassi!! 🖤Empezaré destacando la portada, que es una obra de arte, aparentemente irradia un ambiente idílico, de paz y tranquilidad, hasta que te fijas bien en cada uno de los detalles. Y entonces, solo entonces te das cuenta de la oscuridad que te espera cuando pases la primera página. ⛪ Tenemos una localización perfecta y que da mucho juego en este tipo de historias; el orfanato de San Vicente, que alberga a un buen puñado de niños desde los 6 a los 16 años aproximadamente. Tenemos a Peter Barlow, el gran protagonista de esta historia, que nos dará su versión de la historia presente y también de su turbulento pasado, alternando esos capítulos en primera persona con otros en tercera que nos ayudará a tener una visión más global de lo que allí ocurre.Peter, junto a un grupo de amigos; David, Simon o Basil entre muchos otros, tendrán que averiguar de manera inesperada cómo deben afrontar los nuevos horrores que están sufriendo y que se suman a los que ya padecían (hambre, cansancio o castigos muy severos impartidos por los que deberían velar por ellos) y decidir en qué bando se posicionan. El ambiente está enrarecido desde que llegó aquel hombre en medio de una noche de tormenta, algo se ha desatado y algunos niños se comportan de manera extraña, ¿y por qué sonríen de esa manera tan inquietante?. De la noche a la mañana los niños, hartos de tanta disciplina, pretenden hacerse con el control del lugar al más puro estilo "El señor de las moscas" de William Golding, ni los curas cuya disciplina más férrea los ha mantenido a raya hasta ahora, serán capaces de manejar esta situación. A las condiciones ya de por sí extremas por la escasez de alimentos, castigos igual de extremos y al duro trabajo en el campo para ganarse la poca comida que albergan sus pequeños estómagos, se suma el frío y el terror más absoluto por no saber qué está pasando. Y es que ya lo dijo el gran Chicho Ibáñez Serrador; ¿Quién puede matar a un niño?.Brutal de principio a fin.🔝De Philip Fracassi ya había leído anteriormente su colección de relatos "Bajo un cielo lívido", también editado por la magnífica Dilatando Mentes, que me pareció exquisita y considero que cualquier amante del buen terror debería tener en su biblioteca.Por eso no lo dudé ni un segundo cuando vi que iban a publicar su novela "Los chicos del valle", una historia de terror clásica con niños en un orfanato aislado en medio de un valle, y por supuesto, no podían faltar los demonios. Esta historia tiene todos los ingredientes que todo buen amante del terror desea; muertes, posesiones, momentos muy angustiantes, una atmósfera oscura, asfixiante y decadente, y unos personajes retratados a la perfección con los que inevitablemente te encariñarás y harán que incluso sueltes alguna lágrima.En apenas cuatrocientas páginas ha logrado estremecerme de puro terror y como digo, emocionarme 🥲Fracassi tiene esa capacidad de envolverte con sus historias y que sientas la angustia de sus personajes con una facilidad pasmosa, creando una atmósfera muy lograda al igual que todos y cada uno de sus personajes; esas escenas con los niños atrapados en la habitación me produjeron auténtico pavor 😨Con solo leer unas pocas líneas ya quedas irremediablemente atrapado en sus letras. Y más si juntas el terror con niños que en teoría son seres puros e inocentes, con demonios, curas malévolos y otros que no lo son tanto, y toda la parafernalia, ahí ya me tienes ganada 🖤Realmente esta historia tiene todos los clichés del género, no nos cuenta nada nuevo, pero lo hace de manera sobresaliente, dotando a la narración de un gran pulso narrativo que la hace destacar sobre otras que traten los mismos temas. Philip Fracassi puede pasar de relatarnos escenas de extrema dureza sin escatimar en detalles, a darnos un poco de esperanza con unos personajes poderosísimos que nos recuerdan que después de toda la barbarie y maldad que impregna cada resquicio del orfanato, siempre habrá cabida para el amor y sobre todo, la amistad. Mi resumen podría ser algo así como ⤵️Qué miedo dan los puñeteros niños y más si son como los que nos encontramos en "Los chicos del valle" 😂😱🫣Una vez más, dar las gracias a la editorial Dilatando Mentes y su cuidada edición 📚❣️🔝👌🏻Anímate a adentrarte tras los muros del orfanato de San Vicente, acata las estrictas normas que ha establecido el padre Poole si no quieres acabar encerrado en un agujero bajo tierra sin más compañía que el frío. Elige bando, hazte con un arma por si alguien golpea la puerta en mitad de la noche y reza por tu vida. ⛪"[...] Da un paso atrás, y el vacío de su rostro se ilumina al quedar bañado por la luz de la luna. Lo que mi madre solía llamar la luz de los muertos.Se me corta la respiración cuando veo que una sombra le cruza la cara, como si algo rompiera el flujo de luz de la luna a través de la ventana. Algo del exterior, rápido, silencioso, que se desplaza en la noche."⛪✝️ "Ahora sois instrumentos de Dios. Sed fuertes. Sed compasivos. Sed valientes. El señor os infundirá valor."✝️https://m.facebook.com/profile.php/?i... 🖤📖
6527541513	¡Qué gran novela de terror!.Fracassi con Los Chicos del Valle no ha inventado nada nuevo, podemos decir que es la típica historia del bien contra mal, elementos clásicos del terror que hemos visto muchas veces. Todo esto da igual porque escribe tan bien que te sumerge en una historia trepidante, me ha encantado.La ambientación es inmejorable, principios del siglo xx, un orfanato aislado en un valle de Pensilvania, en pleno invierno, frío, nieve. La he leído en blanco y negro, solo le daba color las llamas del fuego y la sangre. Que poético me ha quedado esto.El autor aparte de su buen hacer escribiendo sabe cuando aumentar el ritmo, la novela en ningún momento se queda encallada, todo lo contrario. Con cada capítulo va aumentando la tensión, van pasando más cosas hasta llegar al final que es un auténtico frenesí.Los personajes para mí son lo mejor de la novela, los que hacen que esta suba mucho el nivel. Desde los niños-adolescentes huérfanos hasta los sacerdotes que dirigen el orfanato, todos con sus historias del pasado que en mayor o menor medida les sigue atormentando.Curioso que los capítulos del protagonista, Peter, esté narrado en primera persona y del resto de personajes con cierta importancia en tercera persona, desconozco si esto solo queda en eso, curiosidad, o el autor tenía otras cosas en la cabeza.Destacar la edición en papel de la editorial Dilatando Mentes, muy cuidada. En esta última década que leo la gran mayoría de libros en digital tener entre manos joyitas así de agradece.Una gran novela del género que gustará a todos los amantes del terror y estoy seguro de a quienes les apetezca salirse de su rutina lectora y probar cosas nuevas.
5451221999	3.5 StarsVideo Review: https://youtu.be/O1gEf94XYdEThis is my third time reading a novel by this author and I am impressed by their range. This story is so different than Gothic and A Child Alone Among Strangers. I like an author who can write a variety of stories but ultimately some will work better than others.I loved the setting of the Catholic orphanage. The story has a slower start but I happen to love the classic tropes surrounding orphaned children so that wasn't an issue for me. Once the horror started it leaned into some elements that I personally enjoy which was great. Overall I liked this one but I felt like there was a missed opportunity with the Catholic school setting and I incorrectly predicted that the author would lean into some social commentary focusing on the evils of humanity. Instead the setting was simply the setting, which is fine but makes for a less powerful story.Disclaimer I received a copy of this book from the publisher.
5678798376	ME HA ENCANTADO TODO!!De lo mejorcito de este año. La ambientación brutal, los personajes principales, sus dudas, temores, y su cambio de actitud ante lo que se les viene encima, es muy real, en ocasiones me recordó al señor de las moscas. A pesar de que es el clásico tema del bien contra el mal, está muy bien escrito, me encantó.Valoración: 10/10Y queda confirmado que Fracassi es un autor a seguir en le género de terror.Sinopsis: Orfanato para niños de San Vicente.Principios del siglo XX, en un remoto valle de Pensilvania.Bajo la atenta mirada de varios sacerdotes, treinta chicos trabajan, se instruyen y rinden pleitesía al Señor. Viven sus vidas de forma metódica y se llevan bien a pesar de tener personalidades y pasados diferentes.Peter Barlow, huérfano desde la infancia, ha forjado una nueva vida entre sus muros y, a medida que se acerca a la edad adulta, echa la vista atrás y ve que ha conseguido un grupo de amigos, un futuro, una familia...Una noche de tormenta, un grupo de hombres llega hasta las puertas del orfanato, uno de ellos malherido, con el cuerpo cubierto de símbolos extraños grabados en su piel. Tras su muerte, se libera un antiguo mal, y pronto, los chicos, empiezan a actuar de forma diferente...Ahora, Peter y aquellos a los que consideraba sus hermanos, deben elegir bando, sabiendo que sus vidas, y tal vez sus almas, están en juego.
4436831449	Boys in the Valley is the story of a traumatised kid who ends up in a Catholic orphanage (OH NO) where food is scarce and kindness and compassion are even more rare. So the boy takes refuge in his faith in god, weird books and a pen-pal relationship he makes with a girl named Grace. Into this difficult situation the police bring a feral lunatic who may or may not be possessed by a demon. Good job, police. This event unleashes a wave of devastation across the orphanage. Whatever began in the lunatic spreads to the kids. And like little steaming teapots their pent-up fury over their daily humiliations escalates into a screaming death whistle. Where hatred and fear metastasises into a blood-curdling explosion of violence that makes Children of the Corn look like Paddington 2.Killer kids running amok (whether possessed by demons or not) is one of the truly great sub-genres of horror because children are both beautiful and absolutely terrifying. The idea of seeing kids twisted into hellish devious little maniacs is disturbing, because they are so innocent and pure. But it also rings true, because kids can be creepy little freaks. Even the best kid can wake up their parents in the middle of the night, whispering to imaginary friends, laughing at jokes only they can hear and quietly quoting Latin verses from the book of the dead. Why? BECAUSE CHILDREN. And some of those creepy little freaks turn into straight-up cold-blooded horror-shows from the deep. And the line between the cold-blooded horror-shows and the adorable innocent cuddle-dumplings can get pretty blurry in the wrong circumstances.And this is one of those very wrong circumstances. Where rumours of possession and tribal infighting against oppressive and abusive authority figures makes things go from bad to biblical. Where every little sweetheart with a sob story is just one claw-hammer away from turning your face into a steaming bucket of gory mashed potatoes.Boys In the Valley is the 4th book I've read from Philip Fracassi. I've checked out his two brilliant short story collections Behold the Void and Beneath a Pale Sky. And they are two of the best collections of this decade. I also read his epic 80s callback with the evil desk that eats people's arms: Gothic. And I am still walking funny. Each time a new Philip Fracassi book drops in my lap I'm always impressed and a bit surprised. In every new book he's just continuously changing and diversifying his style. Building upon his arsenal. He's an extremely versatile writer who is constantly pushing his boundaries and trying new things. On one hand he'll have ridiculous plots where secret organisations connected to evil sorcerers hunt for a possessed desk that is a portal to a hell dimension. On the other hand he'll do heart-breaking stories about growing up that casually link the emotional abuse children face in the places they feel the most safe with cosmic horror. But he treats all these stories with a sense of seriousness and discipline. His pacing is pitch perfect, his characterisation is challenging and his themes are rock solid. He's remarkably consistent and succinct. He's also not afraid to get right to the point and let the storytelling do the work. You can tell a lot of writers try to over-stuff their plots and sell the idea to their audience too much with repetitive talking points or prose. They want to spell out the meaning of their ideas and concepts, so they repeat them and repeat them and repeat them. Even when that isn't necessary. Fracassi just lets the story speak for itself. He just lets it go. And that takes talent and a sort of crazy bravery. A dedication and belief in the world you're building. To just open it up and let it exist.And it does.He doesn't hold anything back. Not ever. There are writers who bleed onto the page and it shows. They open a vein and the work flows from that sheer vulnerability. Fracassi doesn't just open a vein, he spills his guts. Real samurai work. And then he bids you to climb inside his stomach to take refuge from the cold. A lot of his stories feel intensely personal to the point where every inch of it is so uncomfortable, it's like a novel written in raw nerves. And Boys in the Valley feels like his most deeply personal and thematically dense work to date. Every single character in this horror novel has a raging internal struggle between who they believe they are and who they actually are and by the end of the book that conflict is resolved. And the book is pretty short. And there's a lot of characters. Boys in the Valley deals with so many topics and so many characters and so many perspectives. And we go from internalising trauma and suicide to facing depression to the cowardice of violence and abuse to the difference between faith and religion and the power between them. But the book remains easy, quick, always moving. This book is as nasty as a swarm of snapping turtles and it is also a lot of fun. I read Boys in the Valley in a single sitting, and there are many images and horrific concepts that will stick with me forever. The dead father tormenting his child, the abusive authority figure remembering a kid's brains spilling out of their head, the old priest praying to go blind. It's violent, it's brutal, it's intense. But I'll also remember the kindness at the center of this novel. This book is uplifting, it's soulful, and in its final moments, it's warm. Like a memory of making angels in the snow. It's a story about the random violence and cruelty and pain that takes us into depths of hell and the kindness and love and hope that leads us out.9/10Highly recommended.
5987641007	Boys in the Valley is tagged as The Exorcist meets Lord of the Flies, which is a very apt description. Enjoyable religious horror if that is your kind of thing.
5913237291	A lo largo de los años he ido acumulando una buena cantidad de obras de terror que han modelado al lector que ahora soy. No sabría decir que fue lo que encontré en aquellos libros, por qué me fascinaban, qué los diferenciaba del resto de obras literarias convencionales… O si en realidad fueron ellos los que encontraron en mi a un niño miedoso y propicio para atormentarlo con ese abanico de sangre, atrocidades y muerte que desfilaba por aquellas añoradas páginas.Ha pasado el tiempo y sigo disfrutando de esta aterradora experiencia. A día de hoy no me planteo otra manera de entender la diversión con los libros que la que supone el enfrentarse a esas historias, en donde la incertidumbre ante lo desconocido continúa provocándome todo tipo de estremecimientos. Libros como El exorcista, Nuestra parte de noche, Cementerio de animales, La chica de al lado…presentan diferentes modos de enfocar el horror y todos ellos, lo han conseguido. Sin embargo, acariciar las redes del terror no es tarea sencilla. Es fácil caer en la tentativa de frecuentar espacios, repetir esquemas y sorprender con giros de la trama que, por desgracia, suelen ser previsibles. En Los chicos del Valle, Philips Fracassi nos plantea una experiencia reconocible para el lector acostumbrado a este tipo de historias. Nos encontramos inmersos en un viejo orfanato, alejado de cualquier contacto con la sociedad, en condiciones ambientales complejas, cuya rigidez en las normas, la escasez de recursos y la férrea disciplina, suponen por sí mismas una fuente inagotable de horror. Bajo esas circunstancias crece Peter, nuestro protagonista, que trata de servir de guía al resto de los niños de la institución pero cuyos traumas del pasado continúan presente cada día en sus pensamientos.Pero una noche, de madrugada, llaman a la puerta…Con esas premisas, Los chicos del Valle no deja de ser una apuesta por esos ambientes fríos, lúgubres y góticos que tan bien se adaptan a la literatura de terror. Sin embargo, esa llamada a la puerta hace que la novela se tiña de unos colores lo suficientemente oscuros como para viciar las paredes de ese orfanato, recordándonos que lo que habíamos leído hasta ese momentoera una simple introducción. En las novelas que mencioné antes, todas ella estremecedoras y virtuosas en eso del terror, se mantienen unos nexos en común que están presentes en esta obra de Fracassi. Más allá del origen del mal que describan, en esos grandes libros los autores se toman su tiempo para que te familiarices con los personajes, les cojas cariño y, como es obvio, terminen por importarte. Pero, al igual que en esta historia, una vez que te has familiarizado con ellos, se desata esa incertidumbre que te hará temer por todo aquello que les pueda pasar. Eso genera miedo, mucho, dentro de esta obra cuyo núcleo central radica en la supervivencia de unos pequeños cuya vida ya estaba siendo terrorífica antes de escuchar los golpes de la puerta. Fracassi es impecable con sus personajes y les dota de las herramientas necesarias para aterrorizar al lector hasta el punto de tener que reflexionar alejado del libro acerca de determinados pasajes narrados que están llenos de pura maldad. Soy consciente de que el terror no deja de ser una percepción, una percepción tremendamente subjetiva. La misma que me lleva acompañando desde que me inicié a leer este tipo de historias que continúan a mi lado pese al paso de los años. Ese miedo lo encuentro entre las líneas de historias tan fantásticas como las que se presenta en Los chicos del valle. Y es que, pese al transcurrir de los años, leer novelas como esta no dejan de hacerme feliz.
5621370103	Los chicos del valle es una novela de Philip Fracassi publicada en español por Dilatando Mentes. Yo la catalogaría como terror religioso (posesiones/exorcismos).En ella, la vida de 30 huérfanos se ve alterada una noche, tras la llegada de un grupo de hombres armados y heridos al orfanato que resulta en dos muertos.Pero la cosa no ha hecho más que empezar ya que algo oscuro se ha instalado entre los muros del orfanato y amenaza la vida y la seguridad de los pequeños.Este género del terror nunca ha sido mi favorito y al leer esta novela he entendido por qué. Los chicos del valle tiene lo que le falta a otras novelas del género y por eso me ha gustado tanto!Tiene acción y un ritmo trepidante. Tiene demonios activos que no se dedican a poseer un cuerpo y estar tumbados en el lecho esperando a que un cura los joda, sino que no paran de hacer el mal. Demonios que toman la forma de lo más puro e inocente, niños pequeños, pero que no escatiman en violencia y crueldad. Demonios que se alimentan de la rabia y el dolor de los huérfanos y lo usan a su favor. Todo esto me ha parecido. Simplemente perfecto ya que esos sentimientos de los niños nos hacen arden a nosotros de impotencia por cómo los tratan en el orfanato.Todo esto, sumado al amplio elenco de personajes y a la elección del narrador (que tiene su foco en más de 5 de ellos) nos envuelve en la trama confusa y frenética y hace que no podamos parar de leer hasta llegar a un final que nos va a dejar con la mandíbula en el suelo y el corazón roto.Para mí han sido 5/5⭐️ y no puedo hacer más que recomendároslo!!
4957846352	This was good and REALLY sad. It didn't hit the fear factor elements as well for me as it did for a lot of my friends, unfortunately, but it tugged at my heart a whole lot and the writing was lovely. RTC
4220380531	One of the best books I’ve read this year!Religious horror is one of my favourite subgenres of horror – and this book ‘Boys In The Valley’ has it in bucket loads; so much of the stuff that I was drenched in it, think Stephen King’s Carrie on prom night, that was me by the stories conclusion – absolutely caked in the stuff, and I bloody loved it.This is my first time reading Fracassi’s work and it will not be my last, as I’ve found in this book another breath-taking author to champion and I look forward to catching up on his other works and whatever he comes up with next. ‘Boys In The Valley’ focuses on St. Vincent’s Orphanage for Boys and those young men that are living under its roof, under the watchful eye of several priests many of which enjoy the torture they inflict in the steering of these young men into adulthood and departure from the orphanage or the possible guidance into the priesthood.Fracassi’s ability to pull the reader into this story is cemented with the opening chapter, a dark opening that ensnares the reader's heart and mind, refusing to let them go and forcing them, whether they want to or not to follow this path of destruction all the way to its biblical conclusion. Life in the orphanage is not as expected, it’s a cruel place, a place devoid of the much love and devotion these young boys need – many arriving through awful and heart-breaking circumstances, seemingly only to have been thrown from the frying pan into the fire. They are fragile things, near to breaking, and those that have managed to mend are still haunted, but a great many of these boys are destroyed further, through cruel punishments intent on gaining their obedience or apathy of their circumstance and hopes for the future. Our ray of hope in this place is the orphaned Peter, who although strong and an older brother to many of the young boys in the home also carries a dark past, one that utters its presence in the cold long nights. But there is hope for Peter, he’s been singled out as a boy with prospects, a possible priest in waiting – but does he want the gift of priesthood that is being offered or do the yearnings of his flesh hold a more pleasing path for this young boy approaching adulthood. If the nightmares these boys face couldn’t get any worse, one stormy night a group of men arrive at the orphanage, one is near death but somehow clinging to life, he’s covered in occult symbols and hides a dark secret – the men leave the following morning, but their chance encounter, their presence in that place leaves some ancient evil behind that begins to manifest in the lives, hearts and minds of the children. The scene of the half-dead man arriving at the house is full of insidious menace and is the fuse to the bomb that blows these lives apart by the stories conclusion - creepy, sinister, horrific and troubling. The depictions of this man and his crimes are nightmarish in their scope and the writing by Fracassi here is nothing but masterful, the imagery, the scene-setting and the gruesome depictions lodge themselves firmly in the reader's mind and turn the stomach as well as that swelling feeling of dread and horror and revulsion as we realise what is soon to come.The sense of dread festers throughout this book, it’s almost a single brooding note on an organ, and it’s unsettling and puts your teeth on edge. Soon allegiances are formed, the boys loyalty is called into question with one another and the priests who care for them – what is taking part is not survival, it’s a battle of good vs evil – a battle that has been waging for millennia, but who will survive and who will be spared – ‘Boys In The Valley’ is a gripping read that suffocates the reader and demands your attention.To go too much more into this story will spoil the surprise – so I’ll leave the review here, but one thing is for certain, horror now has a new and bold voice and his name is Philip Fracassi – this book is published by Earthling Publishing and I’m sure will and should get picked up for a wider release in the near future.
5821227522	I’m going to say straight out the gate that it takes a lot for a horror book or movie to really get under my skin, so don’t hold it against this book when I say that I didn’t find it all that scary, although, there was some deeply unsettling scenes and David Aaron Baker, who narrated the audiobook, provided an engaging and at times very creepy performance which added a lot of vibrancy to the reading experience. There was one instance where Baker did an evil child’s whisper unexpectedly and I nearly launched myself out of a moving vehicle.You could not have asked for a creepier setting for a horror story; set in 1905 in a remote Pennsylvanian valley during winter sits St. Vincent's Orphanage for Boys, run by the Church and Priests, who employ all the period typical violence that was associated with religious institutions during this time.One night the local Sheriff seeks assistance from the Priests at the Orphanage for medical and spiritual assistance for the remaining perpetrator of an interrupted ritualistic murder and the wheels start to come off rapidly from this point as an evil spread rapidly throughout the boys.I definitely thought the first half of this book was stronger than the second half, although there were scenes throughout the whole book that had me locked in with attention and genuinely creeped out. I shouldn’t have been surprised when a book about demonic possession ended up having some pretty heavy religious themes, but as an agnostic it just got to be a little much for me by the end.This was just a very solid, well written, spooky season read(just because its unusual for me, and I want to be clear, there is no romance or romantic subplots here lol) Content warnings for domestic violence, murder/suicide, murder AND suicide, child abuse, starvation. institutionalised violence in the context of the Church, graphic violence perpetrated by and towards children, and off page animal cruelty.
6595478095	A battle of good vs evil with a supernatural twist! The setting is so atmospheric. It’s cold, dark, and it even smells old. I was transported in history and there in this brutal environment with the characters. One would think that a book that takes place in a Christian orphanage with children would be a bit more wholesome. This is definitely not that. Some of the children are delightful (Peter ❤) and some may or may not be demonic. It is absolutely gruesome in spots, and there is one horrific scene that I won’t soon forget. I think the book did suffer a touch with some pacing issues about a third or so in, but everything else made up for that. I even teared up a little in the end. 4.5 stars, rated up.
5521577281	Sometimes when you read a pre-publication galley it comes with a letter from the editor singing the praises of the book. Usually I skip these. This time I read it and I wish I hadn't. Because I kept waiting for the book I had been told I was going to read to really kick in. I kept thinking there would be more to it. And instead this is a very straightforward by the book horror novel.If anything, it is a very slow one. The first half or so has little to no supernatural elements, except for how awful the Catholic-run orphanage of our setting is. It's so awful, the whole system, that I thought the second half was going to be something very different. Something where the boys took on power to destroy this terrible place. But that is not what happened. There was no take down of Catholicism, instead this has all the stuff you've seen before where religion is endorsed by the existence of the demonic. Maybe these particular priests suck but we're still going to need a priest to get out of this. It's frustrating.It's very very violent and much of the violence happens to children (and plenty is committed by children as well). At the end of it all I just didn't see what the whole point had been. So much suffering before the book started, and then all this brutality in the story, for... what? I have read a lot of horror in the past few years and I just want stories to come in with something to say.
5710458190	Lord of the Flies...BOYS IN THE VALLEY by Philip FracassiNo spoilers. 5 stars. Harris Valley, Pennsylvania...1898 Midnight...Nine year old Peter, watching through his cracked-open bedroom door, sees his drunken father shoot his mother... then himself...1905, St. Vincent's Orphanage...An alarm clock is the only possession Peter has from his childhood home, and that last night he shared with his parents...The valley orphanage is remote...One road in, one road out. The orphanage is surrounded by heavy forest, a barren plain, and a sea of heather...The priests like it that way...The orphanage was a purgatory, a waystation between destinations, both for the living and the dead. A place where unruly boys are sent into "The Hole"...Late one wintery night...The sheriff showed up with an injured prisoner asking for the priests' help with the man before he died...The man, accused of sacrificing a little girl then drinking her blood, is laughing through a burlap sack over his head...But...His laughter sounded like many men, for he was no man... he was a demon, and he was legion...The man nearly escaped his bonds and managed to kill a deputy before he was shot to death...The deranged man was buried in a grave next to The Hole, where a young boy was to spend the night as punishment...Next morning...When the boy was released from The Hole, a medieval torture tactic, he was strange. He was bizarre and unnerving...Like a charismatic politician...The now evil little boy made the orphans choose up sides, and their side promptly murdered one of their own...Wow, this author is a master storyteller! This story was good from start to finish. I was reminded of the novel LORD OF THE FLIES while reading it.This is one of the best horror stories I've read this year so far.
5729797563	Boys in the Valley is the first book I have read by Philip Fracassi. Gosh it's so well written. A slow burn novel dripping with tension and mystery.Set in an orphanage run by Priests from the Catholic Church we meet various young boys and teenager orphans. We learn their history, friendships and hardships. One late night they are awoken by the police who have a man suffering injuries and request the help of Father Poole who was a medic during the war. There is something wrong with this man more than the injury he suffers. This man will leave a mark on the orphanage and something behind which will infect everything with a violent darkness. The setting of the orphanage in a freezing snow bitten area was haunting in itself. The descriptions of the landscape and is harsh elements add to the pending doom that resonates as you read it. The Priests are superbly written from the caring Father Andrew to the hateful and cruel Father Poole. It's a slow burn setting its mood, taking its time with amazing character development and surrounding mystery. We are left with a terror filled final quarter of the book as what has infected the walls of the establishment takes over and has control of its inhabitants. A story of love, wonder, tests of character, childhood dreams and absolute horror which oozes from the page. It will leave you shocked and depressed. A beautiful novel.
6610024950	Para ser una novela de terror, que ya sabemos que hay mucho bodrio suelto (y otras muy buenas también, todo sea dicho), pues resulta que estamos ante un ejemplar de estas últimas, de las que merece la pena leer oye, y más en estos tiempos relajados de lecturas veraniegas como ha sido en mi caso. Una historia sencillita, protagonizada por niños y curas, que también sabemos que conforman una combinación peligrosa, y más si le metemos unas buenas posesiones infernales al conjunto. Pues eso, que con un orfanato aislado, un ambiente rural sureño, y una buena colección de escenas bien macabras, va a hacer las delicias de los amantes de lo oscuro.
5120903021	"God is not found through escape from a distant place, but through the arrival of where you already are."I'm still rather misty-eyed as I write this. Forgive me...In Pennsylvania 1905, young Peter lives in a Catholic all-boys orphanage; years ago his father killed his mother and himself. Life there is tough, but it's the only home Peter and the boys know. Father Poole and his (basically) lapdog Brother Johnson, the latter a former criminal who chose service to the church as punishment instead of imprisonment, keep a very tight leash and punish the boys quite harshly. Peter, often called Saint Peter by the other boys, is one of the two lights at the orphanage. He cares for the other boys and treats them kindly, all while preparing for priesthood under the second light, Father Andrew. But Peter is conflicted about his path to the priesthood, for he has long had feelings for Grace Hill, a farm girl whose father helps supply the orphanage.All of this is upended when the sheriff brings his brother the orphanage. The man is covered in occult symbols after being pulled from a ritual in the forest where men and women killed a three-year-old girl. Just before the sheriff's brother's death he utters the words, "We are many. We are Legion."And then, slowly, some of the boys start to turn and a dark shadow falls over the orphanage. And then the first deaths begin.This is my first read ever by Philip Fracassi and I'm delighted to say that I am an immediate fan. This was a great horror read to end in October! It gave me everything I wanted: characters I cared for, actual scares and a menacing threat, and an actually good and in-depth discussion of faith. This book has been, rightly, marketed as Netflix's Midnight Mass meets Lord of the Flies, though I think it is much stronger than either one of those. It was frankly better than my previous read, Goddess of Filth, another, different kind of possession story that fell flat due to being too short, rushed discussion of its themes, and just not being that scary.Boys in the Valley follows four perspectives: the first person of Peter, partially navigating his conflicting thoughts on being a man of God versus being a man of the world; the second being Father Andrew, Peter's mentor--HEY, look at the significance of those names!--, as he tries to stop the cruel Poole and Johnson from mistreating the boys and guide Peter, but sometimes fails at it; the third being David, Peter's friend, who does not enjoy his life at the orphanage, mostly from the physical abuse he received at Poole's hands as a child; and finally, Johnson, a cruel man who might have a softer side beneath all that grit and anger.Peter's was the most fleshed-out perspective, and it makes since because he's the central character who drives the story. We can see Peter's kindness, fear, and conflicting thoughts on his path in life and how they color his decisions. The conflict of Peter's path made me genuinely interested, wondering if he would be the next priest at the orphanage and be a better "father" to the boys than the other priests or if he would fall in love with Grace. I loved Peter so much and when he showed his bravery to defend the other boys I was so proud of him, but I will say upfront that he is not able to save every boy. At first, at least. And...I'm also in tears about Peter's fate. A part of me suspected that it would be his fate, but another part of me thought (hoped) that maybe it wouldn't. The strange thing is, despite my feelings about it, I don't think I could've seen another outcome. Oh, Peter...Andrew, David, and Johnson are reasonably fleshed out, but it wouldn't have hurt to get more from them. Of the three of them, I think Andrew is the most complete of them. Andrew genuinely wants to defend the boys from Poole and Johnson's law and order, but sometimes he's so ineffectual you just want to scream. I do think there is a point to this though. Boys in the Valley deals with the theme of fatherhood, both literal and spiritual. Peter's real father killed himself before Peter's eyes leaving him alone in the world for a time, but, one could argue, the reason for Peter's protectiveness of the other boys is to pick up where his father failed. Andrew, Peter's spiritual father, teaches him important things about faith and growing up into a man, but he too lacks strength in certain areas to defend others. Poole, the head priest, is basically a tyrant, showing that a man with so much power at the top will care little for others. And Johnson, who is a brother and not a priest, there's a difference in Catholicism, is a man who wants nothing more to enact his misery upon others. Andrew is the best "father" Peter has right now, but not even he is perfect. Andrew did frustrate me sometimes, but he was a compelling character.David's perspective was necessary. Although Peter was definitely not blind to the cruelty of Poole and Johnson, we don't get too much about how utterly evil it is until the demons take over and the killings begin. The abuse David received from Poole as a child hangs over him and thus informs how he navigates his daily life at the orphanage and how he thinks about the eventual demonic threat. David can be selfish at times and while I think Fracassi could've gone into a bit more detail about this, it does spring from his feelings of growing up in the orphanage and the desperation from escaping the threat. He even goes so far as to deny the main threat as demonic--interestingly Father Andrew does too at first, perhaps out of guilt for being unable to defend the boys properly--and says that the boys who allied with demons are doing this in retaliation for the life they've lived. Still, every main character needs a foil who views the world differently, and I think David was good for Peter in that regard. David does grow though. Like Peter, he becomes a man and a "father" in his own way.Johnson was the least fleshed out and we could've seen more. He's a genuinely cruel and terrible man, sublimating his childhood trauma and life as a criminal into his thoughts and actions. This causes him to be easily influenced by the demons who poke and play at his weaknesses. And in spite of all of that, there is a softer side to him that is deeply buried underneath all that. When the first body is found, Johnson is actually grief-stricken and aghast at Father Poole's insensitivity. There's even smaller moments as he tries and fails to resist possession. I won't spoil his fate, but let's jsut say he's able to turn to this better side; albeit it feels forgotten by the other characters.All of these perspective develop the plot well, especially Peter and Andrew, and the pacing is topnotch. Every scene carries the plot or some sort of emotional development forward and I cherished every moment of it. And even though the pacing is at the correct speed, not too quick and not too slow, nothing of value is lost from the text. Some books can be too quick and you forget certain things. Others can be too slow and your interest starts to wane. Boys in the Valley avoids all of this. However, what I think I enjoyed most about this book is the discussion of faith and priesthood. I mentioned earlier that this book is sometimes compared to Midnight Mass on Netflix, but I think it's better than Midnight Mass in its discussions. I have no idea what Fracassi believes in or doesn't believe in, nor is it any of my business, but while Boys in the Valley does show how abuse can and has happened in Catholic orphanages, it never disparages the religion itself or belief. I also want to clarify that the abuse in this book never goes to the sexual level, thankfully. The abuse here is at the hands of power-hungry, uncaring men who want things their way. This ties a little back into the whole fatherhood theme. No idea if Fracassi was intending some sort of commentary on toxic masculinity, but if so I applaud him for not beating us over the head with it. In fact, I think it's Poole and Johnson's cruelty, along with the demons' ability to seduce the broken boys who hate being in the orphanage, that make Peter want to focus on his faith and consider the path of priesthood. He wants to be a good father/priest for those who don't have it. But anyway, back to the Midnight Mass comparison. Midnight Mass brought up a lot of great points about asking where God's mercy is (if it is even anywhere, especially among other people), can one be forgiven and redeemed for what they've done, and asking just who or what God is. However, in the last episode of the miniseries one the characters gives her thoughts on what God is and, to be honest, I felt that the director Mike Flanagan was trying to placate both the religious and the non-religious viewers of it. The speech was very "Let's come together and God is just kind of (insert what the character said here)." And frankly, to me, that weakened the horror the show was trying to portray. Boys in the Valley never argues about God's existence, but asks what God demands of us for others. This isn't a book that I'd call Christian fiction, but I'd put it on the same level as Jo Walton's Lent or Mary Doria Russell's The Sparrow--it takes its subject matter seriously, something I find refreshing in the wasteland of shit that currently exists in the many fields of media storytelling that has limp-wristed discussions of faith and religion. Fracassi never tries to convert or de-convert anybody. He tells us a compelling story and fleshes out its themes and characters to tackle the subject matter.One thing worth pointing out when concerning the religious themes of this book is that one needs to remember that this takes place in America shortly after the turn of the century, especially in Pennsylvania. Historically, Catholicism was not openly welcomed in early America by the earlier Protestant settlers, though Pennsylvania was somewhat of a safe haven, though not without prejudice. Having the orphanage being remote in a valley, though at a much later date, feels like that Fracassi is reminding of us how truly alone Peter and the others are. Additionally, the story is set only nine years before the First World War. The First World War, heralded by the shot heard around the world, would be the seedling that would cause the rest of the world to start questioning the powers that be, politically, socially, economically, and religiously. It's almost as if the events of Boys in the Valley is a lament that good people like Peter started to fade or become unseen before the world plunge into disquietude. But that is merely my own ramblings/theory.And that ending...That fucking ending. I am...I am just filled with joy and sorrow. Bittersweet endings. How I love you. Thank you for this, Fracassi.
7778027780	Conocemos a un grupo de huérfanos que vive en un orfanato aislado en medio de un valle. Todo cambia con la llegada de un hombre poseído que, al morir, libera sus demonios entre los niños, desencadenando una serie de eventos que marcarán para siempre la vida de los protagonistas, especialmente la de Peter, quien se debate entre entregarse a la fe o al amor de Grace, una chica de una granja vecina.Es un libro correcto y entretenido, aunque más inclinado a la acción que al terror. Si bien tiene escenas muy bien logradas, no ofrece nada particularmente novedoso. Hay algunas muertes grotescas, pero todo lo que se presenta aquí ya lo hemos visto antes. Los niños son casi como zombis con inteligencia cuando comienza la acción, y aunque hacia el final resultan un poco más inquietantes con su tono de conspiración demoníaca, la historia nunca termina de sumergirse por completo en el verdadero horror.Eso sí, el autor tiene un gran manejo del ritmo y la narrativa. Fracassi sabe cuándo y dónde hacer crujir la maquinaria, y funciona: pasé un muy buen rato entre sus páginas. ¡Recomendable!
5915345509	A demon possession story set in a catholic orphanage for boys.There's a story for someone here, just not for me. I didn't like the setting or the characters, although the writing was mostly solid. I'm not a huge fan of 'Coming of Age' stories. There are some that I do enjoy, however. This just didn't happen to be one of them.2.5 Stars.
8009623326	Love the book
4525316167	A fantastically written and put-together horror novel by Philip Fracassi, an author I am new to. This book is about in orphanage in the Delaware Valley of southeastern PA in the early 20th century, and the wild happenings there one year. The Cider House Rules this is not though, as this is a wildly dark and action packed ass kicker of a horror novel. Fracassi without a doubt has made his presence known with a bang, and I think this is a name that horror fans will be seeing and hearing much more of, right along with writers like Ronald Malfi and Gemma Amor. The readability here is undeniable. Fracassi can craft a story, and tell it, in a way that will have you turning the pages well into the night. He’s got that gift—this combination of pacing and storytelling that makes the book fly by. This book is filled with dark, gruesome and violent imagery that nearly jumps off the page at times—told in smart but a matter-of-fact style that really works well. So why not a full boat? There were times I was teetering back and forth, between a 4-4 1/2 rating, and at the same time it’s a book I wasn’t immediately invested in. Right off the bat, the prologue felt like something I had read many other times before. For me, the book did suffer from feeling derivative of others that came before it. I don’t say this to attack Fracassi’s creativity or anything, because by the end this book (which was absolutely bananas and very creative), Fracassi shows what he’s made of. The problem may be that this particular type of locked-room demonic/religious sub-genre has been done quite a bit, and there were a few scenes here that I felt didn’t hit as hard as they should’ve because I couldn’t help that feeling that I had been there before. However those scenes aside, there is a good amount here that does feel fresh; I just felt the rating had to reflect this feeling I had a few times through while reading it. Demonic/religious/possession, and other related things, used to be one of my favorite subgenres in horror, books and films. From the classics like the Exorcist to the Exorcist ripoffs like Beyond The Door—I have seen and read many books and movies along those lines and may have somewhat burned myself out on it. That aside, this book still was unique and creative enough that I would recommend it to nearly any and all horror fans. Some elements here were just done so well, and when it was on fire the book was extremely effective. If you love horror along the lines I described above, then this is a book you absolutely cannot miss. Even if that isn’t really your thing, I would still recommended because the book is entertaining as hell.
5728059078	9'5/10 ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐“Un grupo de hombres llega hasta las puertas del orfanato, uno de ellos malherido, con el cuerpo cubierto de símbolos extraños grabados en su piel. Tras su muerte, se libera un antiguo mal, y pronto, los chicos, empiezan a actuar de forma diferente...”La historia de los chicos del valle es buena, muy buena, pero Philip Fracassi (escritor) la lleva a la excelencia con su narrativa. Utiliza frases descriptivas, creando una imagen, que enriquece con comparaciones para intensificar las pinceladas de terror. Es habitual encontrar el uso de conjunciones comparativas para reforzar una descripción. Escenas de acción imposibles narradas de una manera clara. Un ritmo que va de menos a más, entendiendo por "menos" la paz más absoluta y por "más" el verdadero infierno. Te lleva al interior de los personajes, mostrando su luz y su oscuridad. Un maestro este Fracassi, un verdadero demonio. ¡Recomendadísimo!Para los que leéis en papel mencionar la cuidada edición física, de la editorial Dilatando mentes, en rústica con sobrecubiertas. Tiene algunas ilustraciones a pesar de no ser un libro ilustrado. Y una primera edición numerada de 300 ejemplares.
4527177577	Incredible! This may just be my favorite horror novel of 2023. What a great way to kick off October!
6181076799	Estaba dudando entre 4 o 5 estrellas pero el final me ha parecido perfecto. Cuando se desata la locura en este orfanato, todos los eventos son terroríficos y sangrientos a más no poder. Además, los capítulos cortos agilizan un montón la lectura. .I was hesitating between 4 or 5 stars but the ending seemed perfect to me.When madness breaks out in this orphanage, all the events are terrifying and bloody as hell.Additionally, the short chapters make reading much faster.
5807680715	fix it Jesus😳.. this is some pure nightmare fuelyou can truly gauge the quality of a book when i had to stay up till 4am, utterly powerless to stop reading until it was done. this book serves as a powerful reminder of why my love for reading runs so deep, it's without a doubt favorite of the year so far!! trust all the hype surrounding this one!
6211357053	Oh my..... I honestly, and for once, have no words. This was sensational! Although it is very clearly a horror novel, it is arguably genre-defying and much deeper than I ever anticipated it would be. All of the comparisons to Lord of the Flies rang extremely true as I read this one. God is at the center of this, in all of the best ways imaginable! The prose alone, was gut wrenchingly good!Simply superb - I demand everyone read this as quickly as possible!!
7209843195	Full RTC! I was expecting more tbh…
4157218238	A big thank you to Earthling Pub for my review copy. Full review to come, but absolutely loved it!
7048135927	** spoiler alert ** OMG WTF EVERYONE DIED (jk, but the fact that andrew and peter didn’t survive basically sums up the cast dying imo). they were the only characters i cared about and the ending had me tearing up. 3.5 stars!
4224226299	Locked-in orphanage horror? Take my money. Priests, an ancient evil and creepy kids? Take ALL my money! I couldn't help but want to read this one after I read the synopsis... though I was a little hesitant because sometimes these types of stories don't quite work for me. Happy to find that this was more unique and, for me, felt like a cross of Lord of the Flies meet Children of the Corn meet the Exorcist.. you get the gist, no?This is my first Fracassi and most definitely will not be my last. His writing from first to last page is SO atmospheric... it felt ominous from the very first creepy smile. Fracassi gives us different POVs to where we see the struggle of the *priest potentials* not realizing they have a choice and then having to make one. Faith, loyalty to God.... these are all tested here. I will say that stories of faith aren't typically my thing and just because I'm me, I find myself feeling a bit meh during the parts where there's internal struggling of faith. However, I do realize it's an essential part of the story and while I was riveted to the pages, I didn't realize how invested I was until I could breathe again after I turned that final page.Also, can I just mention that I gave myself a paper cut turning a page and for just a teeny second thought the blood would resurrect some demon from the pages. Happy reading, folks!
5683121484	Whew yup I’m going to need a minute, RTC
5813570678	This novel was just perfect. I mean, wow! Philip Fracassi’s writing is amazing. I was expecting from some earlier reviews to discover a Lord of the Flies / Exorcist kinda vibe. This felt much more Lordish. lol… As a matter of fact, I only felt there were a couple parts which produced genuine horror into the mix. I am a horror fan mainly and this is all good. Everything is flawless. The setting of the novel is at Pennsylvania’s St. Vincent’s Orphanage for Boys in the 12th century. Under the strict supervision of several priests, 30 boys work, learn, worship, and praise. Main character Peter Barlow comes from a tragic background with parents who left him in the situation at hand. Along the same lines as a familiar horror novel called The Troop, a wounded intruder brings all the chaos here. This man has been hunted and sports a bunch of creepy carved in occult symbols. When he intrudes an ancient evil is unleashed upon the orphanage where it possesses. All I can say is that this is a very abusive orphanage, and some very twisted priests are in charge of the wrong doing. BITV feels so real and Fracassi paints the images so well. The final act fires up and gets wild. Eye gouging abound…. And one heck of a payoff. I mean it I was really blown away by Mr. Fracassi’s writing. A true talent to watch for the coming future.
5479904446	Boys in the Valley was a gripping read that I found sufficiently creepy from start to finish. It shines in the way the author slowly builds the story while always carrying the sense of dread throughout its layers. There are different types of evil dwelling in the shadows of this story and we get to see it all come out to play. The synopsis had described this as “The Lord of the Flies meets The Exorcist” and I’d say that’s spot on. If you need an unsettling horror to add to your spooky season lineup, I highly recommend considering this one!
5465778073	Really good book, great creepy factor to it, as well written action.
6261602095	It’s a crime that this sat on my shelf for so long! Very disturbing, and very fitting for the genre. The cover of the book really does it no favours 🙀🍿
5755209207	Wow. Philip Fracassi was relentless with his pacing, his ability to develop his characters, even while they're embroiled in the ultimate fight for survival against the demonic darkness that has infested St. Vincent's.Once again, one of my Patrons has picked a 5 star read for me! (Thank you so much, Tara!) BOYS IN THE VALLEY is my first book by Philip Fracassi and friends, believe me when I say later tonight or tomorrow at latest, I'll be starting my next book of his, A CHILD ALONE WITH STRANGERS. Thanks to viewer Shaun Rosel, I have this one here to read because I think I've just found my next favorite author! Winter has arrived at St. Vincent's Orphange for Boys, located in a remote valley of Pennsylvania. (Winter is my favorite season for a horror novel to occur in!) The orphanage is at full capacity - 32 boys - as well as a handful of priests that serve as teachers and guides.Late one night, a group of men arrive hoping to secure Father Poole's assistance in saving a gravely wounded man...a man that needs saving in more than one sense of the word. His flesh is marked with savage cuts forming occult symbols, he speaks with voices not his own and at times in a language no one understands.Ultimately, this man loses his life and in doing so, unleashes an evil upon St. Vincent's. In the days following, some of the boys begin to act differently. Others disappear, only to be found dead due to mysterious circumstances.What follows is an epic battle between Light and Dark where some find that in the face of such evil, their faith fails them. The two sides struggle: against each other and the harsh winter storm raging outside, cutting off any possible escape. It's not enough to just survive, the only hope is to win.Fracassi was amazing with his story structure. He was able to introduce and develop characters for the reader to root for (and later some to root against), he changed up point of view perspective between chapters and sections in order to give the entire scope of what occurred at this orphanage. The author's atmospheric writing style often gave me goosebumps with its ominous foreshadowing, the demonic possession of the boys terrified me and at times, I swear I felt the warmth and light coming off the page in places. I was addicted. While I did successfully mark several bits of foreshadowing leading up to the climax, I was still astonished at the outcome. I'm not going to lie, I had tears in my eyes for the last chapter. This book, while I'm not a religious person, made me feel. I can't get any more detailed than that without giving away crucial spoilers, but if you've read it, then you know. If you haven't read it, you'll know it when you read it.This book, its story, has a power all its own.You can find this review along with other reviews spanning multiple genres at The Nerdy Narrative or if you prefer video format, I do have a BookTube ChannelA heartfelt thanks to my Patrons on Patreon for their support towards my enthusiasm for reading and reviewing!Special thanks to my highest level Patrons: Ev, Sharon, Andrew, Stacy, Amanda L., Kate, Gail, Amanda F., Lourdes, Tara, John, Sharon A-B, Ann, Chad K. & Ashley E.
7576576880	3.75/5Hay algo desconcertante en la forma en que Los chicos del valle está narrado. La novela alterna entre diferentes puntos de vista, pero solo cuando estamos con Peter —el verdadero protagonista— la narración se siente clara. Estoy seguro de que es algo intencional, y no repararía especialmente en ello si no fuera por Peter, san Peter, que me ha resultado un personaje aburrido que, bien pensado, se pasa la mayor parte de la novela sin hacer nada.Por otro lado, tenemos a su contrapunto: David. A diferencia de Peter, que es una versión en miniatura del padre Andrew, David es impulsivo, contradictorio, emocional. Peter es un mero observador hasta casi el final, mientras que —aunque no lo veamos, porque estamos en la granja de los Hill, siguiendo una trama bastante intrascendente de Peter— David se queda en el orfanato. Y pese a su egoísmo y a los rencores que guarda contra esa familia que no ha elegido, no huye. A mi parecer, el único motivo por el que Peter no queda completamente a la sombra en su propio relato es porque David no tiene más capítulos (cosa que hubiera agradecido).Dicho esto, el ritmo es un gran acierto. Fracassi sabe cuándo apretar el acelerador, y los capítulos cortos logran que el caos, cuando irrumpe en San Vicente, lo haga con más fuerza. Hay una tensión que se acumula, y cuando estalla, lo hace de verdad. Este sentimiento de anticipación se apoya en los otros, el bando contrario: ese puñado de niños convertidos en una amenaza. El autor construye a la perfección esa imagen distorsionada del niño, convertido en algo incomprensible, inquietante y temible.Tal vez parte del problema haya sido mi propia expectativa. Todo lo que había leído sobre esta novela me hizo pensar que quizá sería el libro que me reconciliara con las historias de exorcismos y posesiones. Y aunque me ha gustado mucho, y reconozco que hace muchas cosas bien, sigo pensando que este género no es para mí. Con todo, Los chicos del valle tiene momentos realmente brillantes, y me alegra haberle hecho un hueco en mi estantería.
5720311058	Boys in the Valley is a rush. It is absolutely terrifying and unique and thrilling. I loved this novel! Boys in the Valley begins with a prologue that really slaps you in the face. It doesn’t let up after that. This is a growing up story about a boy named Peter. He becomes orphaned after a tragic event and comes to reside in an orphanage for boys ran by a trio of priests. This is also set in the 1900s, but don’t let that stop you. Really the historical setting has no grip on the plot, except that this orphanage in the middle of nowhere is more susceptible to death, starvation, and are unable to call for help. Peter witnesses the death of a man in the middle of the night. Ever since then, the boys have been acting really strange. They seem to be teaming up and plotting. And then all hell breaks loose. Literally. Philip Fracassi has such a skilled flowing prose filled with impeccable imagery that really invites the reader to stand alongside the boys in this story. I felt like I was a part of the crew, questioning my soul in the fight against good and evil. I gave this book a 4.5 stars rounded down. If you decide to read this, I promise you won’t regret it.
6523163860	This was one of the most terrifying yet poignant horror books I've ever read. The book has the most palpable feeling of dread from beginning to end. It was atmospheric, well written and filled with some very complex characters. For a horror novel, the book doesn't just rely on spookiness. No, it has a solid storyline that will also pull on your heartstrings.I also loved how it was fast-paced but, also took its time in building the terror and instilling fear in the reader. Though I mentioned that the book doesn't rely on spook. The spook factor cannot be overlooked or slept on. I was so unnerved and felt chills run down my spine. There is just something so creepy about demon possessed kids. The ending was equal parts scary and heartbreaking. I seriously will not forget about this book anytime soon. A killer horror book that I devoured and could not look away from. Brilliantly executed.
5832765231	Se trata de una historia de terror clásico ambientado en un horfanato antiguo y oscuro y con unos huérfanos tan bien construidos que te sientes allí con ellos viviéndolo todo. El protagonista, Peter, nos va sumergiendo sin prisa pero sin pausa en una situación que va in cescendo hasta la hecatombe final.
7226083328	Una novela de terror que engancha desde las primeras páginas. Las paredes grises del orfanato Saint Vincent, el hambre, el frío y los castigos son los ingredientes principales de esta historia que narra la oscura existencia de unos cuantos huérfanos que están al cuidado de un grupo de hombres de Dios. Peter es un adolescente que lo ha perdido todo, y es condenado a pasar sus días en aquel lugar que parece tener vida propia. Su amistad con el joven padre Andrew lo lleva a pensar seriamente en convertirse él mismo en sacerdote, pero tiene sus dudas, y cuando una noche un grupo de hombres llama a la puerta del orfanato, su vida y la del resto, cambia para siempre al sumirse en un terror escalofriante. Es tiempo de redimir pecados y revelar secretos... también de pagar los errores del pasado.Oscura y asfixiante de principio a fin.Lectura en inglés después de mucho tiempo que no leía en ese idioma y la disfruté muchísimo.
5781269949	4.5 starsLast month I read Evil Dead Rise: Road Trip Edition AKA A Black and Endless Sky; this month we have the Catholic Boys Orphanage Edition. If you’re choosing between the two though, Boys in the Valley is the clear winner.Possession books can be hit or miss. There’s going to be gore and killing, but there should also be a good story with characters you can get behind, and if you’re really lucky, it will also be well written. Boys in the Valley is one of those rare examples of all three.The characters were excellent and their relationships so incredibly integral to the way the story developed. If you are sensitive to descriptions of child harm, then you should steer clear, although I would say in terms of what one expects when demon possession is involved, there were no surprises and it wasn’t gratuitous — inasmuch as one can say that about the results of murderous demon possessed orphans running rampant.Read if you like possession horror, or horror that is just plain well written with characters who come alive in a well executed story.
5928866880	this book could have been decent if there was any effort made at all to flesh out the wider cast of characters to be more than just names in death scenes, to write the more prominent characters with any sense of internal consistency, to avoid anachronistic-sounding dialogue, to gradually establish the repressive atmosphere of the orphanage and introduce a sense of oppression & creeping dread before dropping the reader straight into the ambiguous-except-it-really-isn’t possession storyline; unfortunately the author does absolutely none of those things & so as a result the book peaks at the my chemical romance epigraph. catholic propaganda that doesn’t bother to be interesting or horny or homoerotic is just the dullest shit ever like what are we even doing here man
5919019476	Easily one of the best books I've read this year. Don't expect an outright blood bath. Fracassi takes his time setting up the atmosphere, setting, establishing characters, and their conditions before things pop off. I love a slow burn with a solid pay-off, especially when it comes with a satisfactory side of carnage, plus, it actually creeped me the f*ck out.
7109489172	4,5*Our story takes place at St. Vincent's Orphanage for Boys. It is not a happy story, but an important one.Peter grew up at the orphanage and he has been trying to decide if he wants to become a priest and work hard to help other orphans that might need his help in the future, or leave and start a normal life. The orphanage is not a happy place. Some boys are mean, there is not much food and they have many chores to do every day. Even in the cold hard winter.However, one night, a stranger is brought to them because he needs medical help, and that night will change their lives forever.The atmosphere of this book is unreal. The story is beautiful and tragic. As they are getting ready to survive through the winter months, the stranger has brought something into this place that might not be so easy to get rid of.The horror feels real, the desperation is palpable and the characters will dig their way into your heart. Beautiful writing, beautiful story. It will rip you to pieces. Enjoy it.
4524380993	BOYS IN THE VALLEY is a dark stunner of a debut novel. Heart pounding and heartbreaking in equal measure. I'm very familiar with Fracassi's stories and novellas, so it was exciting to see all those powers put to use in the service of a longer story. I think Fracassi naturally writes tales to get lost in, stories that are focused in their scope but suggest something far beyond the edges. COMMODORE comes immediately to mind. You know there's so much more at work than just what we see. I love books that feel like no one else could have written them, and BOYS IN THE VALLEY is Fracassi all the way through. Style, substance, terror, heart, violence, and some kind of unique electricity that shoots this monster full of life. Highly recommended for any reader who loves books that leave you stumbling out of them dazed, disoriented, and speechless.
5167154297	This is an absolute gut punch of a novel.The horror and heartbreak don’t let up for a minute. In fact, every chapter just gets darker and darker until the incredibly sad yet satisfying ending.Smart, violent, and terrifying.I loved this and want more!• ARC via Publisher
8103852201	I tore through this in a single day. Could not put it down. It does not blink and I couldn’t look away. Set in a remote Catholic orphanage in 1905, this novel descends quickly and relentlessly into nightmare. It begins as quiet dread then becomes full-bodied horror, steeped in isolation, faith, cruelty, and the power of belief (which in here is quite terrifying). Fracassi wastes no time. The atmosphere is oppressive from the first pages, and once the horror arrives, omg it arrives ffs. This is possession horror, newer to me. It’s brutal, visceral, sad. Geezus this was sad. And violent. Oof, certainly a sharp examination of authority, obedience, and the damage inflicted when institutions meant to protect instead control. And these boys… I felt deeply for them. They aren’t props; they’re fully realized, frightened, resilient, and heartbreaking. They have bonds with one another, with their priests, and all have such a desperate will to survive. Needless to say the emotional weight of this story results in a brutal horror story that truly lands. Fave part of Fracassi is his restraint and precision. Love when an author creates so much tension that my toes curl. The prose is lean but vivid, the pacing ruthless, the imagery nightmarish without excess. As with others, I was time warped back into grade 10 reading Lord of the Flies.Horror as a coming-of-age, where belief hardens, trust fractures and childhood is stripped away, (all set in a cold, isolated environment with low odds of survival) is very hard for me to read but possibly my favourite in the genre. Would consider this as one of my top stand alone reads of the year. This was my first Fracassi and it absolutely won’t be my last.Nightmarish. Horrific. Brutal.Terrifyingly fantastic.
5480375201	Boys in the Valley is a coming of age/possession/survival horror story that follows a group of young boys at St. Vincent's, an orphanage in the PA countryside. Under the leadership of several Priests the boys follow a rigid schedule; they perform manual labor, study, and worship. The conditions at the shelter are less than ideal, but it does offer these orphaned boys some kind of reprieve, a safe haven from the cruel injustices of the world (allegedly). That all changes one winter night when evil shows up at their door. Something is unleashed that begins to “change” the boys. And very quickly all the characters in this story are in the fight of their life. This book touches on really important themes; friendship, loss of innocence, good vs evil, and how religion is the framework for morality, defining what should be considered right and wrong, even when it doesn't align with one’s personal ideals. What really stood out to me is how the author effortlessly weaved these ideas throughout the story without it feeling forced or an obnoxious attempt at getting readers to "think". The story was so engaging enough, I felt like a character in the story having to make really difficult decisions. For all my Game of Thrones fans, you know how you would get so emotionally invested in the characters in the show and you would have a physical response? Gasping out loud and yelling at your tv screen, even crying at times. Well basically that was my experience reading this book. For fans of the tv show Midnight Mass I think you’re going to like this book. This is a very bleak, difficult read. There is gore and violence against the innocent that will be very difficult for readers to get through, but so worth reading. I literally cannot find one single flaw, I highly recommend you get your hands on a copy, this book releases July 2023.Thank you so much to #tornightfire for an arc copy in exchange for my review. I cannot wait to pick up more by this author.
6570008188	Un Orfanato para niños de San Vincente a principios del siglo XX, en un remoto valle de Pensilvania. Un orfanato con treinta niños, curas y misterios del pasado por resolver. Peter Barlow, el protagonista de esta historia se ha criado entre estos muros y por fin ha encontrado una familia.Pero una visita nocturna atacará la paz del lugar. ¿Una amenaza real o tal vez imaginaria? Nunca una historia de terror con niños fue tan espeluznante. Estos niños expiarán sus pecados a golpes, con litros de sangre y vísceras. ¿Leíste los juegos del hambre o Battle Royale? Prepárate para llorar porque….no podrán salvarse todos!
5905399141	De las mejores novelas de terror que he leído en mucho tiempo. Fracassi lo hace todo a un nivel altísimo: ambientación inquietante, personajes interesantes, ritmo que nunca decae y violencia a tutiplén y muy visual que resulta en una novela que ningún aficionado al género debería perderse.
5445855921	This is one of those books that I will never forget. What an emotional and riveting horror story Philip Fracassi has written. Absolutely terrifying and so well written, I could not put this book down and most certainly broke my reading slump. The kind of horror that is going to keep me awake tonight. It's definitely a new favorite of mine now.
6731624399	Pronto la reseña.
5895390757	BOYS IN THE VALLEY is a solid coming of age horror novel set in the early 1900s at St. Vincent's Orphanage for Boys in Pennsylvania. Philip Fracassi's newest horror novel was very highly praised by reviewers and bookstagrammers alike, so I definitely wanted to read this during Halloween szn. BOYS IN THE VALLEY is the perfect blend of "The Exorcist meets Lord of the Flies, by way of Midnight Mass" as the blurb suggests. The story is centered around Peter Barlow, a young boy orphaned after a gruesome murder/suicide of his parents, and is taken to St. Vincent's Orphanage. There, Peter takes to the new home and sees the benefits of growing up within the Priesthood, but when strange and devious actions are being done to the boys within the orphanage, Peter must take a stance before it's too late. Especially when bodies begin to pile up.This book is dark and very intense, but I think it's one you need to go into knowing very little about. The synopsis is vague and so will my review. If you like traditional horror, BOYS IN THE VALLEY follows that script much more than the modern horror stories I've been seeing lately. It's a perfect concoction of drama, horror, and psychological suspense. The story moves slower than I would've liked, but once you hit the halfway mark, there's no turning back. I'll definitely read more stories by this author, especially close to Halloween.
6381934458	This was the first time I've read anything from Phillip Fracassi, and holy carp, I was not let down! Possession horror is my favorite sub-genre within the Horror genre - and I can definitely say that Fracassi created a scary and believable story within these pages..I don't want to spoil the story, but I can honestly say that some of the possession scenes really creeped me out. I read this book about 5 months ago, and I can still see the scenes in my head. This is also a very atmospheric book, taking place in the frigid winter months, with snow covered ground and howling winds..If you enjoy possession horror, I definitely recommend adding this to your tbr.
5966299748	Fast paced and full of tension, this story about a demonic possession at an isolated orphanage is hard to put down.Obviously, this is a very dark story. There are quite a few disturbing scenes, but i feel like none of it was really over the top.There are also enough heart-felt moments to prevent the story from moving into the hopeless territory.I feel like, at its core, this is a story about staying true to yourself and fighting for what you believe in, no matter what the cost may be. "One reason tragedy exists is to teach us how to help others, help others learn how to find a way through their own dark time, through a journey of growth."
5130219076	I'll definitely keep my eye out for more from Fracassi. this book and its horror/gore scenes were so well written and visceral, even if the story itself wasn't always my cup of tea - I think i've realized I don't really enjoy *historical* type of horror in general, but this was definitely a top notch one.
5894814900	This book was absolutely phenomenal. The characters. The setting. The plot. Everything was borderline perfect. I need to do some thinking here, but I think this will go down as one of my top 5 books of all time. It’s terrifying in parts, and heartbreaking in others. No character is safe. I cannot recommend this enough!
5942870617	Excellent, terrifying, well written, thought provoking, emotional. One of the best horror novels I've read.
5929500968	**Rating: 4.5/5**It’s been quite some time since I’ve been so affected and disturbed by a horror tale, and boy does this book pack a punch. Set in Pennsylvania’s St Vincent’s Orphanage for Boys, the peace is disturbed by the arrival of a dying man involved in a horrific, bloody ritual. All of a sudden, boys are forming alliances and turning against each other, and what were once light-hearted pranks have now become something far more sinister. This was fast-paced, frightening and had, for me personally, just the right amount of gore. There wasn’t much explanation concerning the origins of the “evil” - which might’ve been nice to have - but as we experience everything together with our protagonist Peter, the element of surprise really amplified the terror throughout the novel. Fracassi’s prose is also beautiful without being overly flowery or ostentatious, and he just has this way of writing that really brings his scenes, descriptions and his characters’ emotions to life:When you’re hungry, goodness is forgotten until you’re not, and the guilt lives in your stomach along with the meat and bread.Highly recommended for all horror lovers, and I look forward to exploring more of Fracassi’s work.
7057977361	3.5⭐️
4555894081	"Padre ¿Estará Grace en el cielo? Quiero decir, ¿podríamos estar juntos en la eternidad? Ya sabe, ¿podríamos estar allí juntos si no podemos estarlo en la tierra?"La ambigüedad y el engaño son las armas que con más frecuencia y sutilezas muestran nuestros enemigos. Vestirse, hablar, comportarse como lo que no son... se convierten en las prácticas habituales de los que nos quieren nublar la vista y hacer ver que su comportamiento es la verdadera revolución. Mucho ojo porque ahora mismo tenemos una amenaza sobre nosotros vestida de esa forma... espero que el que no haya tomado cartas en el asunto ya, no lamente el seguir demorándose y tomarlas cuando sea demasiado tarde.Fracassi nos trae una historia que juega con los tiempos de una forma como pocas veces he visto en una novela de terror. Bajo el clásico esquema de un elemento que perturba el equilibrio de una comunidad introduciéndose en ella con no buenas intenciones, el autor nos lanza uno de los inicios más vertiginosos al que he asistido en mucho tiempo. Unas cien páginas que te lanzan el elemento que distorsiona la paz, en este caso un poseído, que desatará todo un infierno dentro de un orfanato regido por la Iglesia. Un inicio donde puede parecer confuso por la cantidad de personajes que Fracassi nos va lanzando, pero no os preocupéis, porque os los va a desarrollar en las próximas páginas de una forma sobresaliente.No contento con ese inicio la novela continúa con unos capítulos cortos y muy ágiles, en los que no para de lanzarnos el anzuelo para que continuemos hacia adelante, donde el ritmo de los acontecimientos no sólo no para sino que se acelera hasta límites insospechados. Las escenas perturbadoras se van sucediendo con una atmósfera tan envolvente y tan absorbente que en un par de ocasiones tuve que dejar la lectura para quedarme con el sabor de lo que había leído... mala decisión, en ambas acabé teniendo pesadillas muy chungas.Ocasionalmente, muy de vez en cuando se cruza algún libro en nuestras vidas que nos deja absolutamente alucinados. Un libro de esos que ya en las primeras frases sabes que nos va a cautivar y que no vamos a poder soltarlo, que queremos disfrutar todo lo que pasa en él y queremos retener cada detalle de la historia en nuestra memoria. Esto pasa pocas veces en la vida, en la mía podría decir que esto ocurrió con It, El nombre de la rosa, El proceso... esos 10/12 libros que meterías en una maleta para salvarlos si fueran los únicos que pudieses mantener. Esta novela de Fracassi se ha añadido en mi caso a esta lista y probablemente lo deje fuera de las listas de mejores lecturas de este 2023 porque sería una crueldad con el resto de libros que he leído (y ojo que este año llevo libros muy buenos) pero está a otro nivel.Excelente la traducción de Dilatando Mentes. Se nota que han puesto la carne totalmente en el asador. La traducción es sobresaliente y la corrección es brillante. De verdad, no me quiero extender más, descubrid, disfrutad, paladeada esta novela porque merece realmente la pena.En definitiva si queréis un libro que sobresale por su trama, sus personajes, su ritmo, su suspense, su atmósfera... vamos, si queréis un libro a la altura de los grandes clásicos del terror es este.¿Qué os parece?¿Lo habéis leído?
