4026878963	this book really says ‘psychopaths, but make it fun.’ what a totally wild experience.the premise is super interesting. i think it does attempt at times to show that not everyone with a conduct or personality disorder is a murderer/criminal. i actually found charles to be the most compelling character because of this. you can really see hes genuinely trying to stop his diagnosis from controlling his life and how others perceive him. but this is a mystery/thriller, so of course there has to be some emotionless killing. lol. i really wish more page time was dedicated to chloe and her revenge against will. its set up so well, so youre dying to know what will did and why he deserves to die. but as the story progresses and more POVs are added, it becomes more of a side plot, which i found to be a bit of a bummer.but the overall story is unique and entertaining. i think those interested in psychology and glimpsing inside the minds of people who think completely differently will find this fascinating. thank you park row for the ARC!↠ 4.5 stars
3974800457	An academic thriller with psychopath narrators : okay I’m taking my assumption back because one of them is faking! And a killer is hunting down those psychopaths as raging protests of D. C. are increasing! And one of the psychopaths making plans to avenge her rape! What? You still have second thoughts! Come on! This is one of the juiciest storylines which made me go blind about this book! Give it a chance! It gets more interesting at each chapter! You don’t want to stop reading it! Chloe Sevre can be so severe to serve for the righteous justice what she’s done to her when she was only 12! At a party, a despicable human waste raped her and made his friend shoot a video! Yes, this human waste has name. He’s Will Bachman. Chloe chased down him and attended the same college. She planned it all. She knows his fraternity brothers. She knows where he lives. She traces each step he takes like a vulture, dripping salvias to hunt her prey! The reason to get acceptance from the college is her approval for a special study focused on psychopaths like her: the students who suffer from lack of emotions, empathy, required them to wear smart watches track their motions and mood swings. As soon as she attends to her seances, filling the surveys at the lab, she may stay out of trouble and she can follow the steps of her long time predator. But she’s forced to cancel her grandiose murder plans as she finds out somebody out there to kill the students attending that study. She finds out there are only seven test subjects. Two of them are only dead. Her path crosses with pretentious, narcissistic, a wealthy politician’s son Terrible Charles and poor Andre who suffer from loss of his sister, faking his way to be accepted to the study because his family cannot afford the costs of such a prestigious college education. Charlie thinks Chloe can be murderer. Chloe thinks Charles is dangerous manipulator. Both of them warn Andre against each other. Is the killer one of them or two other students who are involved in this special program? Who will they trust as they cannot trust each other? Overall; the book is a little too long because it’s focused on two mains topics: Chloe’s vengeance plan and the killer hunting the program’s students. Because of that, pacing gets a little repetitive and slowing down. As psychopaths: both Charles and Chloe were terribly annoying but it’s normal because of their psychological natures, it’s so hard to empathize with them. Especially Charles’ selfish motives of using his girlfriend for his facade to look normal and his flirting tendencies with Chloe irritate us but also his complex reactions indicate some symptoms he can actually feel something ( still caring for people even though he loves attention and being in the spotlight) made us question if he can be cured. Andre is the only character who may truly care for but it’s so natural thing to love him. He’s faking his tendencies from the beginning and he finds himself on the radar of serial student killer and forced to cooperate with two psychopaths who keep lying and manipulating him. The book is a little slow burn but the concept of serial killer lurking around the campus, academic claustrophobia still kept my attention intact. Even though I have problems about pace and characters, it was still interesting and unique reading which made me round up 3.5 stars to 4 psycho killer qu’est ce que c’est fa fa fa fa fa fa far better stars! Special thanks to NetGalley and Harlequin Trade Publishing for sharing this digital reviewer copy with me in exchange my honest opinions .
4038577795	Welcome to the program!A college clinical study led by a renowned psychologist. Seven students are diagnosed Psychopaths. Nothing to worry about! Just a bunch of psychos putting their heads together. Two heads are better than one, right? or three, or four or more.Free college scholarships handed out to seven students as a reward to study their habits. Their diagnosis and participation are confidential. In return, they are required to wear coded smart watches and keep mood logs to track their emotions and whereabouts.Tick, tock... someone has murder on the menu, a dose of revenge and a four phase plan.I enjoyed this puzzle of a plot. Darkly funny at times, planning a murder over homework, lab reports and French papers. Lots of trails and paths to follow. I was confused time to time with the many POVs converging and some side stories not completely fleshed out, but overall, a good debut! I'm still on the fence about the ending - Never Saw It Coming.....Thanks to NG and the publisher for my review copy! OUT on 9-7-2021
4089444755	We all know that sociopaths are self-centered, manipulative, and sometimes even dangerous, but what happens when the sociopaths who thought they were attending school for a secret observation program become targeted for murder?Before diving into Never Saw Me Coming, I'd seen all kinds of reviews regarding the plot. Some people loved it, some people thought it was outlandish, but everyone seemed to agree that it is a compulsive read. I'm happy to report that it indeed is compulsive, and while the last 25% is a bit wild and unbelievable, it did not hinder my enjoyment of this novel one bit. A fabulous example of how character driven suspense can be even more engaging than plot, plot, plot, and I love how the interactions between the characters in the program were just as intriguing as the actual mystery at hand of who is murdering the campus students. Highly recommend the audio if you're looking for an engaging narrator as well. *Many thanks to the publisher for providing my review copy.
4006798594	Actual rating: 3,5It's been weeks since me and my reading buddies finished this book, so my review won't be in depth as I first planned it to be.Never Saw Me Coming stood out to me with it's cast of characters.It is rare to read about main character who happens to be a psychopath, but it is extremely difficult to find a book with many psychopaths represented, all in one story, all together hanging around, making jokes and just simply being themselves.I was already familiar with basics when it comes to this state of mind (diagnosis or whatever is the right word for it) and I think the author did a good job when it comes to representation.I also want to stress out that I do appreciate the idea/point she was making by telling this story.My favourite character was Cloe and I wish the whole book was written from her perspective, following her narration in first person.Some parts written in third person following different characters were entertaining, but some were boring.At some points I was really invested in the story. My favourite part was the revenge plot, and I'll be perfectly honest with you, as the big thing was happening my heart was racing 100/h.I am sorry to say that with all the preparing for the grand finale and revelation about the killer, I ended up disappointed and to say it simple, the end was underwhelming.Overall, this was very entertaining novel set in college and I would recommend it as a quick read, but I wasn't satisfied with the way it wrapped up.
3894821639	3.5 ⭐️ I have been craving a TRUE psychological thriller, one that combines a sense of humor with a decent body count ( my favorite combination) and this one fit the bill, for much of it. Chloe Sevre is a freshman honor student, who just happens to be psychopath. She is one of seven students offered scholarship money to participate in a psychology study at John Adams University. All she has to do is wear a Smart Watch which will track her moods and movements and participate in a few activities, at the Psychology building. But, was she lured there under false pretenses?Adams was always her first choice, as it is located in Washington D.C., a busy city with a relatively HIGH Murder rate. There are also plenty of pedestrians getting mugged, drunk people getting into fights and stabbing each other, and political protests like the MASSIVE one scheduled for October 23rd-60 days after Freshman orientation-the perfect day to kill Will Bachman. You see, Chloe didn’t care about the scholarship money-She accepted under false pretenses as well.Will Bachman is a student at Adams and she has decided that it is time for him to pay for the mistakes he has made in his past-Will Bachman has 60 days to live. When the first of the SEVEN In the study is found murdered, Chloe realizes she may have went from HUNTER to PREY-but can she trust ANY of her fellow psychopaths to help her figure out what is happening? FANTASTIC ORIGINAL PREMISE but, two things caused me to rate it 3.5. The FIRST-it should have been marketed as YA, because that is how it reads. The SECOND is that at 400 pages, what started out as FUN, began to drag as the original focus of the story-Chloe’s plan to murder Will, became a bit diluted with the second storyline, and the book began to feel a bit too long. But, overall, it was clever and creative and I look forward to seeing what author Vera Kurian comes up with next! Thank You to Park Row for providing a gifted copy via NetGalley. It was my pleasure to offer a candid review! NOW AVAILABLE!
4052558751	Unpopular opinion alert. 1.5 Stars.The blurb had me so excited. I was ready for an epic cat and mouse thriller full of lies and deceit and feeling conflicted about rooting for a killer protagonist. Instead, I am left thoroughly disappointed and relieved I finally got through the whole book. This felt predominantly like a young adult genre. So if you are after the excitement and tension of a mystery/thriller, I would not recommend this book.PlotThe story was told from multiple perspectives: Chloe in first person and everyone else (mainly Charlie and Andre) in third person with inner dialogue as well. l usually love the alternating format because we get more insights into characters and some chapters tend to finish with a cliffhanger. Unfortunately in this case it did not provide additional complexity, tension or suspense/mystery, if anything it made it clearer who the killer was not. I couldn’t immerse myself in any of the characters as the different perspectives didn’t add any value other than show us scenes that Chloe wasn’t part of. There was no contrast in tone or personality, they felt the same across the board. The actual plot gets lost in the excessive and repetitive dialogue of the everyday life of these few college/uni students, where every scheme eventuated to nothing exciting, maybe some minor and incredibly anticlimactic reveals at most. In fact I don't remember the majority of the book and their investigations. I was expecting there to be backstabbing and lying as the blurb suggests but Charles, Andre and Chloe got along just fine. There was nothing more than some inner dialogue about their minor suspicions amongst each other. The twists had potential but they fell flat. Really flat. Considering there was a countdown to kill Will, the build up and tension was non-existent and the showdown was incredibly anticlimactic and too easy. Followed soon after by the final reveal of the murderer, again, I wasn't feeling shocked as the suspects were narrowed down and I had already lost interest.CharactersI was so excited to be in the mind of a protagonist psychopath and to feel conflicted for cheering them on. But I didn’t get enough psychopathic vibes.The main characters were not quite your normal college/uni students, but they didn’t hit the mark either. In fact, the clearest indication that they were psychopaths was the fact that they kept on referring to themselves and others as psychopaths which got old and irritating. I liked the idea of Andre but his involvement was bland. He could’ve been an exciting character, having to (view spoiler)[hide his secret, to try and think like them, outsmart them. But it wasn’t an issue, they got along just fine and he blended in into the program with ease. (hide spoiler)]I also liked the idea of Charlie, being in the mind of another psychopath. He had a lot of information, such as (view spoiler)[the names of other people in the program and Chloe’s and Andre’s secret. (hide spoiler)] What a position to be in, he was set up really well to be able to exploit that information and cause the friction and tension between them. But instead, he did nothing with it and was very helpful.... This book had so much potential. The premise and the twists are on point, but the over-promised blurb and execution left a lot to be desired. Thank you to NetGalley for the ARC.
3898297067	3.5 starsInventive book overall but a little slow.The premise of this book is great, a program at a university for students who have been diagnosed with or have the signs of psychopathy, the professor in charge wants to see if the diagnosis can be managed like other mental illnesses and help the students to become productive members of society. Each student doesn't know who else is in the program. They are enticed to join by the offer of a full ride scholarship. The novel mostly focuses on two main characters' points of view: Chloe and Andre. They both have different reasons for wanting to be in the program, Chloe is out for revenge and Andre has financial motives. Then one person is killed on campus, then another. When Chloe and Andre discover the two victims were also psychopaths, they tentatively join forces to see if they can figure out what is going on.This novel started out well, and I was fascinated to see what would happen with these students that basically have no conscience and don't process the world or life in the same way as other people. Yet, what started off strong kind of meandered as the book got going. Chloe is trying to follow her own agenda, which was good because it meant something was happening in the middle. But after the exciting and intriguing setup, the plot just stagnated for a while and there were a lot of jarring POV changes and side stories that went nowhere. The ending was a little bit predictable and I'm very surprised that none of them "saw it coming,"Overall this novel is definitely worth reading because it contains a very unique plot. Just don't give up in the middle when it starts to drag, stick with it for a satisfying conclusion.I voluntarily reviewed a complimentary copy of this book. All opinions are my own.
4072794599	Chloe Sevre is a new honors freshman just arriving at John Adams University (fictional) in Washington DC. She orchestrated getting into the school for the express purpose of being near Will Bachman, a young man from her junior high school days who she plans to kill. You see, Chloe is one of seven students participating in a psychology department program, the Multimethod Psychopathy Panel Study. The participants are all considered psychopaths and the program is led by Dr. Leonard Wyman who believes they can be readjusted to fit in and behave normally within society. (Yeah, right.) As Chloe begins laying the groundwork for her own scheme, two participants in the program are found murdered and her plans get sidetracked. Chloe’s point of view isn’t the only voice we get in the story. Andre Jensen is another new freshman and a participant in the program. He’s got a big secret, too…that he cheated his way in by pretending to be a psychopath and adeptly answering the questions to confirm it. He’s black, from a good family who figured he didn’t have a chance at college because of mistakes made in his youth. Andre was motivated to cheat because the program guaranteed 100% financial support. Lastly, there’s Charles Portman, a member of the same fraternity as Will and from an affluent political family in the District. Both he and Andre cross paths and purposes with Chloe but align as they try to figure out who’s trying to kill them. I figured the story would be a little bit crazy and a lot clever and got both. Chloe’s psychopathy is so outrageous it’s highly entertaining and all you can do is try to keep up with her plotting and scheming. When she connects with Charles and Andre, I got lost in all the duplicity as they struggle with their distrust of each other while they have to partner for protection. I didn’t like Chloe but I also didn’t dislike her…she’s quite the enigma. I really liked Andre whose only agenda is to get a free education but also had to work with these two people he knew were dangerous. I’m still unsure of how I feel about Charles as even to the end, I wasn’t sure if he was being real or continuing the veneer he learned to wear through therapy. I really enjoyed the story, a lot, even when it started to drag out near the end. I was starting to get bogged down by the theories and machinations and just wanted to speed things up. I listened to the book and thought Brittany Pressley was outstanding in her depiction of Chloe! I conjured up the image of Piper Perabo as a result and if you remember her duplicity in the TV show Covert Affairs, you’ll get Chloe. Pressley did a great job with the other characters and the storytelling, too, but her voice for Chloe elevated the story. The ending wasn’t a huge surprise but it was consistent with the clues. What was a surprise is what happened with these three. You’ll need to read or listen to it yourself for that, which I highly recommend. This is quite the debut with its unique premise and I’ll sign up for whatever’s next from Kurian. 3.5 starsPosted on Blue Mood Café(Thanks to Harlequin Audio for my complimentary copy. All opinions are my own.)
4113614435	3.5 rounded upWhat do you call a room full of psychopaths? Well, I wouldn’t call them anything as I’d be moving swiftly in the opposite direction! In this novel we work our way to Day 60 when Chloe Sevré has plans for Will Bachman. It’s the first day of term for freshman Chloe at John Adams University where along with others diagnosed with psychopathy she is to be part of Dr Leonard Wyman's Panel Study aiming to train them to live a’normal life’. Chloe, Andre Jensen, Charles Portman and others wear a smart watch to record moods and so on. Events take a dark turn at the university which seems to link to the CRD serial killer of many years ago in which Wyman has involvement in his capacity as a psychiatrist. The novel starts well and for the first half or so it’s extremely hard to put down. Wyman's study is intriguing and each of those involved have good back stories that are dark, particularly Chloe’s, though I frequently question exactly what game Wyman is playing. Chloe's portrayal is the most convincing, we can see her all to clearly with her chameleon habits and defined agenda. Her humour is dark, no surprise there and I really like this element. The pace is fast, there are several twists and turns, there’s so much tension it almost makes you gasp and some gut punching revelations that make you feel sympathy for Chloe’s mission. Charles is also portrayed well, he’s sleek, slick, dangerous and undoubtedly power driven. However, unfortunately from about the half way point the pace drops off and the storyline drifts into something else from where it begins and the focus now seems to be on the past. It does have some excellent moments of tension- talk about Kill Bill - and it is certainly devious and unpredictable. The pace in the first half is fast so you anticipate an explosive ending, however what we get is something very convenient and if I’m honest, it’s a damp squib. It’s seems to be set up for a follow up which I hope will have more consistent pacing. Overall there is a lot that is good in this book, there’s some originality and the characters are fascinating. Although it’s not marketed as YA it seems to me that is the most fitting audience for this especially as it’s set in a university with all the fraternities and other things that baffle us Brits! It’s well worth reading and the first half is an absolute cracker. With thanks to NetGalley and especially to Random House UK, Vintage, Harvill Secker for the much appreciated arc in return for an honest review.
5058157921	Loved this one! Never Saw Me Coming is the kind of book that leaves you wondering if everyone is calculating and has a running inner monologue? Are we all borderline psychopathic? So many times, I found myself cheering on the 'psychopaths' only to be horrified that I was doing so - which to me, is the mark of a great writer! (Fist bumps for Vera Kurian - this was the first book I ever read by her!) A Few Things The Author Does Well: - Good use of red herrings! None of the included characters felt like lazy additions to throw you off. and I truly didn't see the ending coming, which happens a lot. (I even predicted the end of Verity by CoHo, and I was bummed by that.) - Love when there is a story within a story- Truly made the main character's newly minted 'adult' status come through in her writing/ the FMC's inner monologues. It definitely felt a little juvenile at times, but I think that was somewhat the point to clash with the thriller nature of the story. - The author is a writer and a scientist, which automatically (as a research scientist by day myself) like her all that much more. - I like the perspective of a female psychopath since there are statistically fewer violent female psychopathic criminals. Not a perspective we often get. (Another great book from a female psychopath's perspective is 'First Born' by Will Dean. Also loved that one!)Some Things I Didn't Like: - My mum and I read this one together for our family book club this month and we both agreed that it wrapped up a little too quickly? Almost like there needed to be a few more (short) chapters of explanation. - Genuinely makes me question people's harsh criticism of psychopaths lol, which I'm not really sure if it's bad or good but definitely made me feel creepy crawly (also the mark of a good thriller!)Favorite Quotes: - 'Luckily that particular model didn't have the fingerprint ID function - otherwise, I'd have to perform minor surgery on Will.' - I about spit out my water. This was said whilst in the middle of other normal thoughts, and I just loved the coldness!! - "How do you not know about twenty thousand dollars?!"..."Portmonts are too busy polishing their monocles!" - Oh goodness, this made me laugh. Just not something you see rich people accused of often, but I loved it. Notes: - Some smutty situations, but overall mostly new adult/young adult thematically- I think this would make a GREAT movie!! - Will make you question if you have psychopathic tendencies! (You were warned lol...)*TWs: Ra.pe / stalking
4259336477	“Never Saw Me Coming” by Vera Kurian is an interesting mystery/thriller/suspense story. It involves psychopaths, college age psychopaths.A fictious Washington DC university has a program in it’s psychology department. It recruits psychopaths and gifts them with a full ride, room, board, and tuition. The idea is that the head of the department believes he can create upstanding citizens out of these psychopaths. He feels that through therapy and individual sessions, these psychopaths can learn how to provide correct emotional responses along with learning how to achieve goals in a moral and legal manner. So, what could go wrong in combining 8 psychopaths in one school??The main character, Chloe, goes to the school for the sole purpose to kill a boy who did her wrong when she was twelve years old. Chloe provides first person narration, so we grasp what the heck she has planned.To be in the program, the students need to wear a watch that monitors their emotions. Because of the watch, another student of the program recognizes her as being part of the study. The program is anonymous, so no one is to know, other than the T.A.’s and the director, who the psychopaths are. This becomes important when two fellow psychopaths are murdered. Are they murdered for being in the program or is this random?What’s interesting is that author Vera Kurian is good in that we sort of root for the crazy people! None of the psychopaths are likable, yet we don’t want them dead. Chloe’s search for revenge was a bit over-the-top for me. This is a most anticipated Fall 2021 novel by Newsweek, Goodreads, PopSugar, Crime Reads, Crime by the Book and more. I liked it, but it wasn’t as amazing as I anticipated. It is a fresh idea, but it wasn’t a book that I couldn’t wait to get back to.
3976316070	Chloe is a freshman in college, but she can’t get over her past. Probably because she’s a psychopath! She’s one of a group of students that the University is studying. “Psychopaths interacting in a college setting“ what could go wrong?This was a campy college horror read. Since all the major characters were psychopaths I knew their was no point in trying to guess who the killer was or why they were causing chaos. I just sat back and enjoyed the twisty roller coaster ride ☺️
3902433313	This was exactly what I wanted. Five stars! Will Bachman drinks too much and hangs out with people who don't look after him.Will Bachman has made some mistakes.Will Bachman has sixty days to live. Chloe Sevre is just like any other college freshman - moving into her dorm, figuring out her class schedule, navigating social media, and of course, plotting a murder. In the meantime, she'll be plenty busy as one of seven students on campus participating in an innovative clinical study of psychopathy. But campus life won't be all psychopaths and rainbows - there's a murderer on the loose. And everyone knows, you should never trust a psychopath.Y'all. This is SO MUCH FUN! Is it slutty to be messaging one boy when you are on the way to meet another? Maybe not if you're planning on killing one of them. Never Saw Me Coming is a spinning carousel of motives and distrust, secrets and lies. A multi perspective novel, (that has maybe one too many POVs), the voices are sharply differentiated and always interesting. In addition to main character Chloe, we have Charles, a senior frat bro with political aspirations, and Andre, a freshman who is keeping secrets even bigger than his diagnosis. Rounding out the cast we have Dr. Wyman, the head of the study, and his chief grad student and doctoral candidate, Elena Torres.That's a big part of what makes this book so enjoyable. The characters are smartly drawn and nuanced. For a book that features multiple characters with past trauma and various mental health diagnoses, it presents them in ways that feel honest, if that makes any sense? It's easy to create a "bad" or "evil" character and slap a psychopath label on them. It's much more difficult (and rewarding) to create characters with personality disorders and present their flaws and achievements in equal lighting. "You're. Fucking. Insane.""I accept myself for who I am." It's also darkly funny, which I LOVE. I also love a book with a ticking clock, and characters who are smart and self aware. It subverted my expectations multiple times and pulled off twists seamlessly. It really hit the nail on the head when it comes to knowing what to tell the reader and when, keeping me guessing but not frustrating me.This just hit a perfect balance of mystery, thrills, black comedy, and character. It takes unreliable narration and mixes it with a healthy dose of distrust and constantly swapping alliances.Never Saw Me Coming isn't a perfect book, but I'll be damned if I can find anything significant to complain about. I just had a great time reading it, and I'm 100% on board for whatever Vera Kurian writes next.Quotes come from digital arc and my be different in the published version.Thanks to Edelweiss and Park Row for the review copy!
3861722641	A unique premise for a thriller - seven psychopaths given full scholarships to college, part of a special program that monitors their activities and moods in the hope of understanding their illness and helping them become better, functioning members of society. Told in multiple points of view, the characters are fascinating, each a study of psychopathy. But, being psychopaths, none of them are exactly who the program thinks they are and their motivations for being there are not all exactly what they seem. And now they are being hunted; could it be one of their own? Never Saw Me Coming is a dark, complicated tale with a twisty path, and a satisfying ending. Don’t pick it up unless you have time; you won’t be able to put it down!
4015475713	Never Saw Me Coming by Vera Kurian is a thriller novel. Some have this one as young adult and others as adult, technically it is new adult with the characters being college students. The point of view in the story will change between a few of the characters who by the way are psychopaths!Chloe Sevre considered it destiny that she is attending John Adams University having applied to all the colleges in the D.C. area. You see, Chloe has a plan, a revenge plan, that she intends to see through to the end against the boy who did her wrong when she was only 12, Will. The fact that Chloe is now on a full ride scholarship courtesy of the psychology department only makes her more determined to see out her plan.Chloe obtained her full ride to the university because Chloe has been diagnosed as a psychopath. She is now part of a study carried out by a professor at the university, a renowned psychologist, who had brought in six others like Chloe all on scholarships. As Chloe is activating her mission however one of the other students in the study is murdered bringing attention to the campus.The first thing that comes to mind with Never Saw Me Coming is that these aren’t very likable characters. Well, we are talking a book on some cold and calculating psychopaths so I didn’t expect cheery and delightful either. I also couldn’t help but think what does it say about me that I enjoy reading about these characters? However, I do have to admit I was fascinated by Chloe and her mission as much as I was with finding who was the murderer on campus and I did keep flying through the pages all the way to the end so I did enjoy reading this one.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
3870598289	Walk in the shoes of a psychopath this fall and pick up a copy of Never Saw Me Coming. This campus-set novel was full of psychological thrills, unreliable narrators and twisty plots; I never wanted to put the book down! The main antiheroine, Chloe Sevre--a diagnosed psychopath and social chameleon with vengeful intentions--was addicting to follow. I rooted for her and was terrified of her at the same time. Aside from Chloe, the other narrators in this book were thoroughly enjoyable. I couldn’t trust any of them, which was delightful for a hardcore mystery fan like myself. Highly recommend this debut for fans of Dexter or Jessica Jones.
4658593179	Quality wise, this is probably more like a 4 star, but considering I stayed up late reading it... I'm bumping to a 4.5. I absolutely loved the narrative voice & dark humor of this! I was invested in all the different POVs and I thought it was an enjoyable variant of a serial killer type mystery. It was a little baggy in the middle, but I liked the voice so much, I didn't really notice. Very fun & entertaining for me!!
4011776126	In a Nutshell: This had so much potential! I still love the concept. I just wish the author had more writing experience because this book would have packed a really strong punch. Story:Chloe Sevre is offered a scholarship at a Washington DC university in exchange for being one of seven students who are part of an unusual psychological study. After all, she is a diagnosed psychopath and a merit-ranking student. Chloe gladly accepts the free education because she has her own secret agenda: she wants to kill a fellow student named Will Bachman. Her planning is flawless and her activity schedule leading to the intended murder starts off well on track, but is soon derailed by the murder of a fellow student in the psychology building. Soon, Chloe fights two battles: she wants to be the hunter but she doesn’t want to be the hunted. Two other key characters in this story are Charles—a wealthy businessman’s son who seems to live his life under a façade, and Andre—a Black student from a middle class background who is in the same study as Chloe but for financial reasons. When the murder is discovered, the paths of the trio converge.The story is written in multiple perspectives of these three characters, with Chloe being voiced in first person and the two boys voiced in omniscient third person. Where the story worked for me: • The unusual lead characters: I’ve read enough thrillers where the murderer is a psychopath. This has to be the first thriller where the psychopath is a potential victim and a potential murder too. The emotional dilemma is conflicting enough to make you wonder whether or not to root for Chloe and her plans. For a debut work, this is an outstanding choice of leads.• The psychological details: The author is a PhD in social psychology and her grasp over the psychological aspects of the personalities of psychopaths shows wonderfully. It takes some time to get used to delineating the more popular definition of a psychopath and fit it in the actual psychological definition. But Vera Kurien’s writing helps tremendously and you soon understand why criminals are commonly but misleadingly called psychopaths. • The main characters: I can’t say that I connected with the characters. This ought to be an obvious revelation because considering Charles’ and Chloe’s personalities and their thinking as psychopaths, it wouldn’t have boded well for me (and my mental status) to empathise with them. But I did enjoy their portrayal. The character sketching for the three of them is superb and without any glitches except one. (Details below.) I liked Andre’s character the most because his difficulties seemed very realistic. I wish he had more page space. Chloe is too smart for her own good and I relished her overconfident vibe.• There are some brilliant lines in the book, especially in Chloe’s chapters. One line that had me snorting was, “One thing I will tell you about girls—they don’t think with their penises.” Where the story could have worked better for me: • Plot Structure: The book starts off very well and hooks you in the narrative with Chloe’s devious thinking and Andre’s insecurities. However, the structure goes haywire after a few chapters with frequent perspective changes and too many red herrings. It felt like you were in a maze, and the author was leading you in a particular direction intentionally, but you knew in advance that it was not the way out and you still had no choice but to follow the author out of compulsion. • Fault in Character sketches: There are many contrivances in the story that seem very clear to readers but not to the central trio. Especially considering how Chloe and Charles are portrayed as intelligent, their inability to see these glaring chinks in their hunt for the murderer is tough to accept. There are so many obvious cues that they missed out on that it didn’t sync well with the rest of their portrayal. But at least these three make a mark. The rest of the characters aren’t well developed and have hardly any back story that helps you decipher their actions. Some of them pop up only when needed by the main troika. I wasn’t happy with the portrayal of any of the secondary characters.• Slow Pacing: A thriller thrives on pacing. The moment the pacing goes for a toss, the interest level dips. This thriller is SLOW! There are too many unnecessary curveballs that try to throw your guesses askew but they don’t work. Too much of a slow burn!• Knowing the killer: Nothing spoils the fun of a thriller as much as discovering that your first and only guess about the potential killer was the right guess. 😕 The minute the killer comes in the narrative, I knew it had to be that person. The ending could have still salvaged my experience if it were more suspenseful. But the entire dramatic thrill ends abruptly and the final showdown is over even before you realise it. This generates the feeling of an anti-climax; imagine reading through 360+ pages of suspense for hardly 10 pages of a genuine finale. • Formatting flaws: I am always okay with multiple perspectives in novels as they help in seeing the plot from different angles. However, it would have helped to have the character name at the start of each POV. Chloe’s was the only obvious one as it was in first person. For the others, the revelation occurred only when I saw their name in the chapter. This doesn’t aid effective transition between character voices. Also, there are numerous text messages sent to and fro in the story but these aren’t punctuated well. It made it tough to decipher what part was the text and what was the plot. (This might be a problem only in the ARC, but it did make my reading experience tougher.)Regardless of the numerous possible areas of improvement, I can still say that I enjoyed the concept of the story. It was only the writing that left me dissatisfied, but I have no doubt that with more experience, the author can become a name to reckon with. I will definitely keep an eye out for her future works if she can give me such unique lead characters and an interesting psychological perspective every time. Recommended if you want to read a book about psychopaths being the victims for a change. Those interested in psychology will certainly find the book engrossing. It’s a good, slow-burn thriller with novel lead characters. 3.5 stars from me.Thank you to Harlequin Trade Publishing, Park Row and NetGalley for the ARC of the book in exchange for an honest review.***********************Join me on the Facebook group, Readers Forever! , for more reviews, book-related discussions and fun.
3943917107	I absolutely adored this book - a really most excellent premise in which we follow a group of diagnosed psychopaths, all attending college on scholarship in return for taking part in a study of their behaviour. I mean what could POSSIBLY go wrong?One definitely has murder on her mind, but when a killer starts stalking the halls, things go a little crazy. The writing is excellent, the story itself is cleverly involving and the outcome never guaranteed You won't find a more compelling group dynamic in many books and I'm really hoping this won't be the last we hear from them.Fuller review nearer publication.
4127311480	This was a fascinating premise about a group of students identified as psychopaths and “studied” at a college. The chapters have differing points of view, and my favorite chapters were those narrated by Chloe, an intriguing psychopath. Chloe has a particular psychopathic mission at her chosen college relating to vengeance, justice and payback. I particularly enjoyed the way Chloe’s chapters were written. I’ve read a lot of books with narrators who might be psychopaths whose narration is charming, emotionally rich, and otherwise NOT psychopathic. Here, Chloe’s narration has a certain unusual remove and callousness to it while still being fascinating, To me this was a perfect and much more innovative way to depict a psychopathic character than the charmers we often see in this genre. I also really enjoyed the character of Charles, who had a very different inner life and logic than Chloe. I really enjoyed the contrast and interplay between the two characters.Though I enjoyed this book, there were a couple of negatives. One was that due to the college atmosphere, the emotional immaturity of the characters, and the casual narration styles, this felt more like a YA book to me. This isn’t necessarily a problem for me because I like a good YA thriller, but if you don’t like YA books, it’s something to note. The other thing to note is that the book is super long for this genre. This is more a testament to how good the mystery was — I wanted to get to the resolution sooner than we did.It’s hard to believe this was Vera Kurian’s first novel. Well-written and entirely creative. If you have the fortitude for the length (here I should mention I have a notoriously short attention span and yet I still enjoyed it!) and are a fan of mysteries, this is a great one to check out. I’d also be really interested to see what this author could do with a fully adult psychopathic character, Thanks to Harlequin, NetGalley and the author for this interesting and promising debut ARC!
4167685803	NEVER SAW ME COMING⁣⁣First and foremost, thank you @ashleywinsteadbooks for putting this book on my radar because I never “saw it coming” 🥁! 😉 This book reminds me of both the YOU series meets IN MY DREAMS I HOLD A KNIFE—taking place at John Adams University, a psychology professor is holding a study in which participants suffering from forms of psychopathy are being researched and tested for their social awareness. In comes our main character, Chloe Sevre, a freshman who battles with her mental state, but is mainly at John Adams University for revenge. At the same time, someone out there is also hunting her—but who could it be?⁣⁣First off, this book was SO FUN! I read the book in a day and if I could’ve, I would’ve read it in one sitting. This book is definitely one of the more fun books I’ve read this summer. There’s moment where you may have to suspend reality and just go with the flow, but the story worked for me just fine. I did feel that the execution of the “whodunnit” was a bit sloppy (sorry, can spoil the ending so I’ll talk to people who’ve read it!), but I’m not taking it away from the solid thriller that is NEVER SAW ME COMING. Overall, I would definitely recommend this to anyone looking for a popcorn thriller type of story!
4344414960	A definite page turner! Vera Kurian's Never Saw Me Coming was a psychological thriller for the times! Social media trolling, clickbait, spyware, stalking, revenge plots, liars, geo-tracking, fights breaking out, murder, hostages, AND it all surrounds a college study about psychopaths! With multiple points of view, Never Saw Me Coming is the story of several psychopaths, all lured to the same college, their tuition costs covered, so long as they agree to be part of a secret graduate study on psychopathy. But when psychopaths are the narrators, how do you know who's telling the truth? Who can you trust? What alliances are real? It took a little bit to get into the meat of the story, but once there I couldn't stop reading. So many high stakes moments, the problems becoming more and more severe. And then there's the issue that you, the reader, are rooting for psychopaths! It all comes to a head with some fascinating character changes as well as thought provoking ethics around humanity and psychopathy. If you're in a reading slump, Never Saw Me Coming may be the character-driven psychological suspense story to shake up your shelf! Alluring premise, well-paced, and mind-racing evil deeds.~JessFind this book and other titles within our catalog.
4046499331	I was hooked by the premise of a group of 7 college kids, who have been diagnosed as psychopaths, agree to join a study program at a University in exchange for free tuition. They are slowly being hunted and murdered. Can our Scooby-Doo band of psychopaths unmask the killer? Debut author Vera Kurian has a PhD in Social Psychology, which I felt added a pinch of authenticity to an otherwise wholly fictional storyline. Who really wins here? Was I supposed to be pulling for this merry band of psychopaths so they can continue on doing psychopath things? The author did a lot of telling us that psychopaths can be normal and live normal lives - afterall, that was the point of the program. But I never felt it with these characters. There wasn't anyone to root for. I had fun hunting the killer even though I was wrong. At 400 pages, there was room to trim. The first 1/3 of this was excellent, especially Chloe hunting Will Bachman. But even that novelty ran dry. A bit of a mixed bag but I would definitely read the author's next book. Cheers!
4156171512	*Warning* No spoilers below, but I hate being this savage about a debut novel. I wish Vera Kurian no ill-will and hope she has a huge success with this and all subsequent books! I'm sure she has a hit on her hands. But by god, this book truly tested me. Off the top, I have to say that the narrator Brittany Pressley can do no wrong, she's an excellent voice actress. I've listened to several books narrated by her and she deserves a raise. She tries so hard to elevate this book to something passable, and even she can't do it. Never Saw Me Coming is a book about a bunch of diagnosed psychopaths attending a college with a full scholarship to take part in a study about how psychopaths feel, or don't feel, emotions. I couldn't call bullshit any harder on this, but we suspend our disbelief for the sake of a fun story-- I was super excited to be in the mind of characters who struggle with feelings and use mimicry as a form of deception to get by in society. However, this author (who has a PhD in Social Psychology!!) treats psychosis like a superpower. These spunky bunch of CW-inspired psychopaths use psychosis like a sixth sense, a strength enhancer, a stealth mode! They're going to solve the mystery of who's murdering their fellow test subjects, Riverdale style! I wanted this book to treat psychopathy with genuine interest rather than pandering to tropes, but the main character Chloe is just a brat. Being a brat does not a psychopath make. Not only is she just a simple brat, but she also has an aggrandized sense of "purpose" which is OF COURSE not anything actually disagreeable, she's just trying to murder her rapist (I hate it, I hate it when authors are too chicken to give their characters problematic drives, so even the PSYCHOPATH TRYING TO MURDER SOMEONE is doing it to a well-deserved victim we can all agree is a grey area, allowing us to still find the character likable or relatable). Oh Booklist, you told me this was for fans of Gone Girl. Why would you do this? I trusted you. If you're interested in reading a summer flash in the pan, here it is. I had such high hopes, but this book fits very firmly in the Young Adult category. Not to diminish young adult literature, but I genuinely think younger people will find the college-age Gossip-Girl-equivalent characters more interesting. Why it's not being marketed as such is beyond me.
3884152463	Chloe Sevre seems like any other college girl, focusing on her new friendships and her studies. Chloe Sevre is actually a registered psychopath and alongside upholding her 4.0 grade average she is on a mission to enact her revenge on the one who has hurt in her the past, regardless of who will stand in her way as she gets to him. Chloe is about to encounter a far more pressing problem, however. Two murdered students have been found on her college campus and it seems like one of the killer's next victims might be the face looking back in the mirror at her.This was a truly twisted thriller with a surprisingly deep and emotional focus present, too. I initially found this deliciously devious and it retained this aspect throughout, but a more heartfelt vein started to appear and run concurrently to it. These seemingly opposing features worked together to craft an absorbing and well-resolved mystery, complete with vivid and nuanced characters who only proved more intriguing for how little I truly knew or could trust about them.I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Thank you to the author, Vera Kurian, and the publisher, Harvill Secker, for this opportunity.
4015140061	Never Saw Me Coming was a much hyped book and once I read the synopsis I knew that I had to read it. A clever and unique thriller that kept me guessing, full of red herrings and surprises. It was dark, funny and really binge worthy. Highly recommend for lovers of the thriller genre.Chloe is a freshman at college and there on a scholarship thanks to her participation in an ongoing trail - for psychopaths. Yep - Chloe is a psychopath and there are more of them at the college in the trial. She keeps this part of herself hidden well but she wants to know who else is like her. When there is a murder in the psychology department she has her first clue. She wants to find the killer, but her primary focus is to kill Will Bachman who also attends the school - but why? And will she succeed?You need to read this on. It is fun to watch Chloe and her friends plot and plan to catch the killer, all while trying to fit in with everyone else.. Thank you to Penguin Books Australia for sending this one my way. Out now in Australia
3981106109	I loved this book and read it in one sitting. It is a unique story focused primarily on Chloe, a diagnosed psychopath who is part of a special study at John Adams University in DC. Chloe schemed to get accepted into the program because she has an ulterior motive to kill a guy named Will who did something terrible to her when they were children. The book is primarily narrated by Chloe in the first person, but there are also some chapters narrated by other members of the program, Charles and Andre, in the 3rd person. The plot was fast-paced the entire way through. When a student is murdered, both the reader and the characters are trying to figure out who did it as well as whether it's part of a larger plot. The characters can't trust each other (nor can the reader trust them), which just adds to the mystery. I love an unreliable narrator and enjoyed the fact that we really don't know if we can trust Chloe or not; I also loved that the writer had a unique way of getting me to root for Chloe even when she was doing things she shouldn't do. The mystery was sound and I honestly couldn't figure out who the villain was. I got there about the same time as some of the characters and greatly enjoyed the way it all came together. Also, being familiar with the DC area, I enjoyed the setting, and although John Adams University is fictional, the rest of the descriptions of the area are spot-on. Would definitely recommend this unique and fast-paced thriller! Thanks to Netgalley for providing me a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
4026352332	Whoever can say:"Psycho Psychopath Psychopathology" 5 times, super fast, wins!On your marks! Get Set! GO!!!'Psycho Psychopath PsychuopathgyPsycho psychi syopatholgy'Damn! I'm out! Haha. First things First. A stellar creative idea for the plot. Psychopaths, participating in a psychopath psychological experiment along with other psychopaths? Sold! But wait for the bonus, an unknown person begins to hunt and kill the participating psychopaths. Say What!And then the brutal truth. So much potential. Some very interesting characters. Yet, even with different narratives provided, I still failed to connect with anyone. It's ironic, and that may have even been the authors point. Even after walking in the mind of a psychopath, there was still a struggle to connect with them. And please note, my disconnect has nothing to do with them being psychos or any of the creepy stuff they think or do. (If that's a problem for you alone, I recommend passing.)No, I couldn't connect with them, as illustrated in this book. As the mind of a psychopath was quite dull! Few things interest them. They are bored easily. Narcissistic of course. Detached, and detached was I as well.The author displayed my previous comments very well. Unfortunately, too well. I was not able to find purchase on the suspenseful aspects. I know the psychopath is going to head into the scary dangerous situation every time. But they're never actually scared, no fear. In turn I felt no suspense. And as such, I got bored. A few moment's with gravity occurred. Otherwise, I was numb myself, by the end.Thank you to HARLEQUIN – Trade Publishing (U.S. & Canada) via NetGalley for the digital reader copy.
3910000751	So, here I sit with another 2-star read. What sounded good to me, 7 psychopaths in a study, turned out to be 3 1/2 psychopaths in a study. We get up close and personal with 3, then later another is brought to the surface somewhat. And then yet another later on halfway through the book. The rest are just background noise. So I really wasn't getting what I came for. Way too many characters besides the psychopaths to care about. A college is the backdrop of the story so there's the college stuff going on amid a couple of murders happening and another in the planning stage. This was way too long and the story itself was a jumble of crap that didn't need to be in there. If you want to go deep into the psyche of a psychopath, read a different book. This was really just surface-level stuff and nothing seemed to be of any consequence, at least to me. Everything was anti-climatic, and that ending was ridiculous. Are you fricking kidding me?!
3903680426	A university program targets young people with psychopathic tendencies. What could go wrong? The doctor who heads up the program is an enigma. What is his motivation for gathering these students together into a program. There are safeguards in place to keep the students from knowing who else is a participant, but they also all wear the same black smartwatch. When one and then two of the students in the program are murdered, it becomes clear they are being hunted. Who is the hunter? Someone connected with the administration of the program? Or is it one of their own? Cloe Sevre is our unreliable narrator. She has her own reasons for becoming a student at this particular university and the study is just a good excuse. Other points of view are sprinkled in including the doctor running the program and two of the other students. The variety of viewpoints gives us multiple perspectives on some of the same events. Red herrings abound and I really liked the book on audio. The perfect novel for folks who enjoy true crime books and podcasts.Thank you to Harper Audio and NetGalley for a DRC in exchange for an honest review.
3999607508	Never Saw Me Coming, a mystery/thriller book, was a solid 4 stars. Never Saw Me Coming centers around main character Chloe-an incoming college freshman with revenge on her mind for something that occurred in her past. Chloe is also one out of seven students that are on full scholarships in exchange for participating in a clinical study for psychopaths. Yes, she is a psychopath! If things aren’t interesting enough, one of the students participating in this study is brutally murdered and Chloe begins to think that they are targets to someone’s sick and twisted games. Never Saw Me Coming is an interesting and entertaining book. I found it extremely unique and enjoyed the well-developed characters. Highly recommend for fans that enjoy mystery/thrillers books. Thank you NetGalley and the publisher for providing me a copy of the book in exchange for an honest review.
4455748766	Chloe Sevre is a college freshman with a secret. The cute, yet brainy honor student was recruited by her college and given a full scholarship to participate in a study by an esteemed Psychology professor because she is a psychopath. When someone starts murdering other students like her, Chloe and her fellow lab rats fear being suspects because of their special diagnosis. Meanwhile, Chloe has another reason for choosing the college. The full-ride is nice, but her real reason for attending the school is simple revenge.My first thoughts about this novel are . . . well . . . holy crap! This thriller was just so satisfying. I absolutely LOVE a good anti-heroine and they are just so rare. I had the wonderful opportunity to attend a Zoom book club yesterday with the author and I asked her why she chose to use this uncommon trope and she had such a great answer. She said she was tired of the typical female protagonists in thrillers - the damsels in distress waiting for a man to save them, the wronged wives and girlfriends, the victims. She wanted a strong, intelligent, driven woman who was quirky and interesting. I have to say that she succeeded in this! Chloe will take no crap! I loved her, rooted for her, and felt a little guilty doing so. The author also mentioned that she wanted her little psychos to be endearing but make the reader a little uncomfortable rooting for them. In this, too, she nailed it!Chloe is deliciously calculating. Since she is not burdened by pesky emotions, her actions are instead driven by skill and manipulative intent. I gave myself a brief once-over before leaving the room, reapplying my lip gloss and fixing my hair. The hair had to be just right -- a loose, effortless side French braid that actually wasn't effortless. You have to be the kind of girl who "doesn't put any effort in" but naturally rolls out of bed looking like a horny but somehow demure starlet. If you meet some standard of objective attractiveness, people think you're better than you actually are -- smarter, more interesting, worthier of existing. Combined with the right personality, this can be powerful.Be aware that there is a lot of potentially offensive content -- sex, violence, language -- yep, all the big ones.If that doesn't bother you in this context, then I highly recommend you get this book now!
4113647263	What a premise to draw me in: A select group of students can get a free ride to Adams college if they are chosen to participate in a psychological study. The only requirement is....you have to be a psychopath! We mainly focus on Chloe, Charles and Andre all who I absolutely just loved. They were like your friendly(sort of) neighborly psychopathic detectives! Let me take a step back : We meet our main characters, mostly centered around Chloe as they navigate the study as well as college life. However, college life takes a bit of a turn when some students are murdered and it appears that either one of them could be possibly doing it or maybe they are the targets. There is also a bit of another side plot that is taking place at the same time - but don't want to get into that one as it will be pretty apparent which one it is once you start reading. There was a bit of snark written in and I absolutely loved it...a thriller with snark! I found myself chuckling every so often. This was such a fun read and the last chapter was just perfect IMO. I usually don't like novels centered around college campuses but this was so good and glad I gave it a shot
3977911461	I have to admit the blurb of this one had me hooked. A study being conducted on a group of psychopaths interacting in the college setting with the story being told primarily from the perspectives of those psychopaths? Sold. I really liked it. I thought the characters were well developed and full of character flaws that highlighted their diagnoses. Chloe is part of the study, a freshman at Adams University who is the girl next door who likes yogalates and is plotting the death of Will, a student a few years older who grievously wronged her when she was a child. Her plans are slightly interrupted when students from the program start to die and she needs to figure out who is behind these deaths….so she can frame them for her own murder. Chloe is a unique character and the primary narrator and she is definitely a voice that will stick with me.
4272518384	3.5/5From the moment I saw the cover of Never Saw Me Coming by Vera Kurian I knew I had to read it. And really it was just a bonus that it has one of the most unique premises I have heard of for a book. What happens when you have 7 psychopaths at a college together? Something bad is bound to happen and there are plenty of bad things that happen in this story. These aren't really likable characters, but in an odd way I really loved Chloe, so it's perfect that she was the main viewpoint. We also get a couple of other viewpoints as well and I loved the way that kept me on my toes. I had no idea going into it that this was a debut, and I think Kurian is off to a fine start, especially if she has more unique concepts up her sleeve. This does read like a young adult novel which I was perfectly fine with, although I was hoping it would go a little darker than it did.When I listen to an audiobook, I always go into it not knowing who the narrator is because apparently, I like to be surprised. So, I was especially happy to find out Brittany Pressley narrates Never Saw Me Coming. When you listen to a lot of audiobooks like I do you definitely end up having favorite narrators, and Pressley is one of mine so obviously I will be recommending the audio to everyone I know. She was killer (no pun intended) as Chloe, and she did a fantastic job (as always) with the other viewpoints as well. The storyline does get a little dark, especially when we learn what happened with Will and Chloe, but overall, it isn't too bad so even if you are a squeamish reader, I think you can handle it. My only grievance with Never Saw Me Coming was that when I got to the end, I had one of those "that's it?" moments that I don't really love. I really liked the entire book up to that point, and while the ending was a bit lackluster for me, that does not mean I am giving up on Kurian. I loved the majority of the book and am excited to read whatever her sophomore novel is, which hopefully comes out in the near future since I hate waiting...I received a complimentary digital copy of this book. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own.
5493224459	Review coming soon!Rating: 👥️👥️👥️.75 / 5 disordered psychesRecommend? YesFinished: April 20 2023Read this if you like:🙃 Unreliable narrators🔪 Murder mysteries 🏫 Dark academia 🧐 Psych theory👤 Personality disorder rep
4224292753	A fun thriller with a high concept that actually sees it through. Impressively done, Kurian is one to watch.A university professor runs a special study on psychopaths. He recruits actual diagnosed psychopathic teens, gives them a full ride to the school, and in exchange they go to therapy and take part in testing. The idea is to help them learn to function effectively in society rather than giving in to impulsivity or disconnecting from people. We get to see all this first hand with Chloe, a new freshman and psychopath. Chloe isn't ruthless exactly, but she definitely knows what she wants and she isn't afraid of manipulating people to get it. Chloe narrates many chapters for us in first person so we get to know her well. Oh and she's also planning to kill a guy in 60 days.This is a book about psychopaths, it's also a book that understands that psychopaths are real people that make up 1-2% of the population. You've probably met more than one and never known it. Kurian has a PhD in Social Psychology, and it's clear that she wanted to approach psychopathy from a realistic point of view. And yet she still delivers a fun, twisty plot that doesn't exploit the characters' diagnosis or downplay it. Along with Chloe we get Charles and Andre, two other students in the study who couldn't be more different. Charles is rich and white. Andre is Black and only able to afford college through the program's full scholarship and oh also Andre is just faking his diagnosis. And plenty of other unusual characters along the way, along with the requisite body count on campus.The twists and turns are really well executed and lots of fun, there is always something (or more likely three things) going on. But really the best part is getting to follow along with Chloe, Charles, and Andre getting to see all their suspicions and the way they learn to trust (or not trust) each other. Getting to spend so much time with them makes this a surprisingly-heavy-on-character novel, which I always love. It really is more than it looks like and yet it also really delivers on plot. I did the audiobook, which was fine but I wouldn't say opt for it over print necessarily. The reader is great at Chloe's first person narration, but she does that thing where she lowers her voice to do male characters so they all sound the same. (I also dislike this in male readers, would everyone stop doing this?)Content warnings for suicide, rape of a child (mostly not on the page but referenced often), sexual relationship between a minor and a teacher, along with the usual violence you'd expect from a thriller with psychopaths and serial killers.
4109651152	This turned out to be yet another 'premise sounded right up by street but then didn't deliver enough'.A psychopath student in a university study, while plotting to kill someone? I couldn't wait to start this audiobook and it started off really strongly. I was invested, I was gripped, and was so excited to see where it went.For me, it seemed to not go anywhere for a lot of the middle section, and I would frequently lose my concentration while listening and had to start the chapter again. I seemed to like the narrator's voice, so I'm thinking the plot was just too slow during those middle sections. I just wanted so much more from this!
4195920689	One of my top 5 for September! https://www.instagram.com/tv/CUaPx0UJ...
4310940474	Interesting premise, but I just didn’t buy it.
4547338231	*www.onewomansbbr.wordpress.com*www.facebook.com/onewomansbbrNever Saw Me Coming by Vera Kurian. (2021). Chloe is a first-year student at university. She's an ordinary girl who happens to be a diagnosed psychopath with a very high IQ and her main goal is to kill a boy named Will. Chloe is part of a secret clinical study run by the university's psychology department for students who are psychopaths. Chloe's private vendetta is temporarily sidelined when a string of murders at the campus causes panic. Chloe partners with fellow study participants (that she can't trust) to work out who the murderer is... I thought that this novel was a great debut for the author. It was an original idea for a storyline, not something I've ever come across before that I can recall, and I found it entertaining. While the synopsis only refers to Chloe, the book swaps perspectives often, primarily between Chloe and two other participants of the secret study, Charles and Andre. I found all three intriguing for different reasons. I must admit it felt a bit odd to be hoping for Chloe's murder plans to work out haha, but the psychopath students were very charismatic and I think readers will agree that one can't help but be drawn to them. Overall: happily recommend this book for any fans of the thriller genre.
3726283734	This was just as awesome as I hoped it would be!
4000272031	Never Saw Me Coming is a story of 7 students who are given free tuition to be a part of an unusual college study. What makes this particular study so different is that it only includes psychopaths, including our main character, Chloe Sevre. Chloe is here to exact her revenge upon another student from her past. Things are running relatively smoothly for this plan until a student is found dead in the psychology department. Now the hunter has become the hunted. Chloe and two other students in the program band together to attempt to solve this mystery, but can you trust a psychopath? This book was so much fun! It makes you root for characters with a less than functioning moral compass which can be pretty fun. Writing about psychopathy opens up so many lanes to really twist a story and it is done pretty masterfully in this novel. I did kind of struggle to stay immersed in the beginning but found myself hooked about 25% into the book. This would be ideal for those who enjoy voice-driven stories with less than neurotypical characters. I felt like the ending was at least somewhat predictable but that doesn't so much take away from the overall enjoyment of this novel. Thanks so much to NetGalley, Park Row Publishing, and Vera Kurian for an eARC in exchange for an honest review.
4083767598	Favorite Quotes:There was the FOMO part of me that wanted to stay and hang out and do what everyone else was doing their first week of college. But then there was that other part of me. My only consolation was that once I was done with Will, I could throw myself body and soul into what college is supposed to be: romantic intrigue, baiting girls into stupid fights for fun, having affairs with professors.The trick to undetected mischief is to have a look on your face like you’re just heading home to do laundry.He reminded me of Gaston from Beauty and the Beast except with better hair.My Review:This was a stellar read; brilliantly paced, cunningly plotted, and breathtakingly insightful. The storylines were deftly penned and perceptively written from multiple points of view and I was quickly pulled into an oddly compelling and somewhat disturbing vortex of devious scheming, emotive story threads, keenly clever snark, and shrewdly detailed observations and inner musings. I was intrigued, perplexed, enthralled, and riveted during perusal and cringed with annoyance when my reading was interrupted as I didn’t want to miss a thing. Vera Kurian may well be an evil genius as well as a master storyteller and has titled her book with 100% accuracy as I never would have foreseen this ending on the horizon.
3894705175	This book had so much potential to be good but it just wasn’t! We follow students who are all part of a clinical study at John Adams University. The catch? They are all diagnosed psychopaths. One student in particular, Chloe Sevre, puts her sleuth hat on after a murder takes place on campus. Could the killer be one of their own? Unfortunately, Vera Kurian’s writing was extremely dry and monotonous. The suspected killer changed way too many times, and Chloe was so annoying and unlikeable. This one was a miss for me.
3895251255	You don't get to read many books with the perspective of a psychopath, it being in the open and all. I was very excited to read this. You are brought through many povs and since they all lack empathy you are always switching to who might have done it. It was very fast paced I really enjoyed the buildup. It ended up more like a true crime who did it. Happening in real time. But can you see who was coming?
3923264395	This was a really chilling take on psychopathy. It started out somewhat confusing...in that it could have benefited from a prologue, but it all came together rather quickly and the pace was steady throughout the novel. My only real complaint was the over-analysis of who the killer was by the main character trio, but that was easily overlooked. The ending wasn't super twisted, but still rather satisfying. Four solid stars.
3903923347	Never Saw Me Coming is a thriller set on a college campus, as a girl plotting to kill someone finds herself in danger when a string of murders occur. Chloe is a first year student who looks normal, likes parties, and is taking premed classes, but she's also part of a secret clinical study of young psychopaths run by the psychology department. She's also plotting to kill Will Bachman, another student at the college. However, when other people—rumoured to also be part of the study—start being murdered, Chloe might also be under threat, and she might have to try and find some allies in the other study participants.I was drawn in by the campus setting, and it works well by giving a typical backdrop to a very atypical situation. The book is split into chapters, either narrated by Chloe or third person narration focused on a few of the other characters, which feels typical of this kind of thriller, especially when you're not sure who to trust as everyone is manipulative or lying in some way. This structure occasionally gives some nice payoffs too, and insight into how the characters view each other. The actual plotlines are quite straightforward, but they are gripping and a bit of 'true crime podcast' type vibe to them (I assume, I don't do true crime podcasts).I will say that I can't appraise the "psychopath" stuff or anything said about the study or those involved as I don't know anything about psychology, but it did feel like it did the serial killer thriller thing of making a lot of bold pronouncements about types of people (and occasional stereotypes about mental health). The study is, for a lot of the plot, more of a conceit than something that is looked at in depth, however, and mostly it's an escapist campus thriller with some antihero characters.As ever, I find it hard to read a thriller with this kind of American setting without mentioning Point Horror, and as I loved the 'Nightmare Hall' books back in the day, I was hoping on an up-to-date, possibly a bit less trashy update to those, and Never Saw Me Coming did deliver on that, as a book that plays on the stereotypical college girl with Chloe and also goes for rich frat boys as well. Not necessarily a nuanced book, but a ridiculous serial killer thriller with a college setting.
4225715770	Never Saw Me Coming is a riveting and nail-biting psychological thriller set on a college campus, and boy does it pull out all the stops. Meet Chloe Sevre. She’s a freshman honour student, a leggings-wearing hot girl next door, who also happens to be a psychopath. Her hobbies include yogalates, frat parties, and plotting to kill Will Bachman, a childhood friend and frat boy who grievously wronged her some time ago. Chloe is one of seven students at her Washington DC-based college who had been offered scholarships if they agreed to participate in an unusual and experimental clinical study for psychopaths—students like herself who have psychopathic traits, lack empathy and can’t comprehend emotions like fear or guilt. The study, led by a renowned psychologist, Dr Leonard Wyman, requires them to wear smartwatches that track their moods, movements and other biometrics as well as attend mandated counselling. It takes up a lot of time, but when she's not engaged in the study Chloe is busy plotting her long-overdue revenge. It has been six years since Will hurt her in such a devastating manner when she was only 12 years old. The only reason she is actually attending Adams University is that Will is enrolled there; it is nothing but a means to an end for Chloe. But when one of the students in the study is found murdered in the psychology building, a dangerous game of cat and mouse begins, and Chloe goes from hunter to prey. As she races to identify the killer and put her own plan of poetic justice into action, she’ll be forced to decide if she can trust any of her fellow psychopaths—and everybody knows you should never trust a psychopath. This is a compulsive and refreshingly original thriller told from the viewpoint of three of the students as the plot twists one way and then another and the body count begins to steadily climb. This is a real treat—a clever, sharp, character-driven thriller with fantastic characters and a vividly conjured campus setting, the insularity of which adds to the suspense. The student psychopaths at its heart really worked their manipulative magic on me. Chloe is determined, intelligent, conniving and has a snarky and funny side to her that adds a lightness to the dark subject matter. Andre is kind of normal, almost a nerd, thrown into a situation over his head. He’s the emotional hook. And Charles is the tragic character who wants to be good but he’s awful, a poor little rich boy. Chloe as the addictive antiheroine is methodical, intelligent, unusual and takes charge, and even though her actions might be morally questionable, you can’t look away from her. It is an irresistible, rapid-fire thrill ride packed with drama, manipulation and action and even some irony and crazy plot twists thrown in for good measure. Scintillating and ripe with biting wit and verve, this is an immersive and hugely entertaining thriller. Highly recommended.
4181820046	had potential and kept me reading but the back half execution was off. this was a campus thriller though for all those that love that trope👻netting out around 3-3.5 for me. wish it was all centered around Chloe’s POV vs others in the study group. ending felt random to me and not sure if i fully understand it. full review to come on my Instagram. but i loved the plot and two main characters. and of course, the setting 🖤thanks to Park Row for the gifted copy! love this cover so much.
4178512229	I don't know if I just had too high of expectations, but this was kind of a flat read for me. I was intrigued about a book with a group of diagnosed psychopaths college students at the core, but I was really just bored for most of the story and I didn't connect with the story or characters at all (a fun bit of irony, at least). Three primary characters got focus: Charles, Andre, and Chloe and were distinct enough, but the narrative was unbalanced, with Chloe - the least interesting to me, getting the most focus. The pacing did a good job of propelling the story, but I didn't really care who the killer was, so it didn't make me want to keep reading.I received a copy of the book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review
4219472271	I really enjoyed the premise of this book. A group of students classified as psychopaths are given a full ride to college in exchange for being test subjects. They are part of a unique clinical study that monitors their mood and movements via smart watch. The idea is to find out what makes them tick. Interesting right??I really enjoyed Never Saw Me Coming. The characters were interesting and their actions were fascinating, especially the psychopaths. I definitely felt their lack of empathy! Overall this was an entertaining read with a very satisfying conclusion.Thanks to Park Row Books and Netgalley for my copy!
4196183039	Ok wow- what a wild and great premise!! Loved this so much. It’s not often you see a plot line you’ve never come across before. You often hear about unreliable narrators or suspect they are, but from the jump you realize realistically nobody can be trusted because they are all psychopaths. Multiple POVs, but super easy to follow. The first half of the book was incredibly ominous and anxiety inducing and I wished the second half had more of this, but I feel like part of the reason is that we start to uncover what is actually going on in the second half. Either way- I devoured this book and didn’t ever want it to end. Look forward to checking out more from this author!!
4194858653	Chloe is one of seven psychopathic students given a full ride at a college.with tuition and other expenses paid. The program is designed to help psychopaths learn to live normal lives whether it is to get married, having families, starting businesses, etc. Before Chloe can get to the idea of getting a good education, she has a plan, a plan that has s several phases. This plan includes killing someone who assaulted her when she was younger. However, before long, two students in the program are killed. Chloe goes from setting her plan an action to trying to stop someone who is killing fellow students. Is she a target as are the remaining students in the program? Who can Chloe trust, especially when she starts to get far too close to danger? Chloe can't do it on her own is forced to trust at least one person in the program, While reading this thrilling book, it was quite interesting to see how psychopathic behavior is analyzed and what traits exist in certain peoplle. I must honestly say I don’t think I’ve ever read a book like this before. So, the hunter becomes the hunted in this riveting game of cat and mouse! What a clever story! Filled with shocking twists and incredible tension, Never Saw Me Coming was utterly impossible to put down. Many thanks to Bookouture and to NetGalley for this ARC for review. This is my honest opinion.
5516195640	Never Saw Me Coming was a unique thriller that I can honestly say I have not read anything like it before. It wasn't an all-enveloping read that I was expecting or looking for, but it was still enjoyable. There is a clinical study for psychopaths, a program at a DC-based college that our main characters are part of, but ultimately has them become prey, when they were once hunters. It was different and fun, and I think it would be a great book club choice! Happy reading!
4254433024	*4.25what a FUN ride! highly recommend if you're a In My Dreams I Hold a Knife girlie
5405053575	I read a ton of thrillers, so it was fun to read something in that genre that was a little different! Enjoyed the book and the characters... I do wish the switching POV chapters had been titled, it made it a little difficult/confusing when I stopped in the middle of a chapter, but overall I liked it! 3.75 stars rounded up
4144258376	I am very intentional when selecting my reads. I try to match up books to my current mood and state of mind simply because I know these elements are relevant to my enjoyment of the book I choose. Never Saw Me Coming ended up being one of those "the right book at the right time" selections for me. I love psychological thrillers but I needed something a bit more offbeat and quirky and this story definitely delivered in that regard. I should also mention that as a reader I usually don't care how "likeable" characters are as long as I am connecting to the story but I have to admit that Vera Kurian got me rooting for psychopaths in this one!Chloe is starting a new chapter in her life as a freshman at a Washington DC college. Except that unlike most other freshmen, Chloe is a psychopath accepted to her school as part of a study into psychopathy conducted by a psychologist who dedicated his career to this specific area. Of course the study is conducted under the veil of secrecy and the rest of the college is unaware of it taking place. Psychopaths are unable to experience certain emotions such as guilt or fear but more importantly they struggle with concepts of empathy and ability to see things from another person's point of view. And not all psychopaths are created equal. As wonderfully portrayed in this story. Not surprisingly, Chloe is at this specific school with her own agenda but all her carefully laid out plans get derailed when someone starts killing subjects in a very secret study. This was one of those "just one more chapter" reads for me. I loved the unconventional premise in a "conventional" setting without the usual clear distinction between good/bad protagonists. I also realize that for fans of the genre a lot ends up riding on "unpredictability" of the big reveal at the end but the reality is that there is always a finite number of possibility and though the ending might not have been earth shattering, overall it was a very engaging, enjoyable read for me. I will definitely be keeping an eye on any future releases from Vera Kurian.This book popped on my radar thanks to love it's been receiving from many of the bookstagrammers I follow and now I'm jumping on that bandwagon before its release as well. My gratitude goes to NetGalley, Harlequin and the author for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
4294698262	Actual rating: 4.5 stars, rounded upNever Saw Me Coming wouldn’t have been more than a blip on my radar if Emma wouldn’t have recommended it so highly. While the premise was intriguing, it didn’t immediately grab me. But I’m so glad I picked it up after reading her review, because this was a new take on the academia novels I’ve so come to love. Fun, compelling, and thought-provoking, Never Saw Me Coming scratched an itch I didn’t even know I had.The points of view were fascinating, as was the premise. This is the story of three college students, all from radically different walks of life with very little held in common. But there is one thing they share, and it’s the thing that most defines each of their lives. Chloe, Charles, and Andre are all part of a special study at their university, one that pays the entirety of their tuition in exchange for active participation in a study with the psychology department. The study in question? Psychopathy. That’s right; two of these students are clinically diagnosed psychopaths, and the other is faking the diagnosis out of desperation. When murders start plaguing the campus, authorities immediately suspect those participating in the program, and the three perspective students reluctantly band together to find and stop the killer. Only in their own self interest, of course. Surprisingly, I came to care deeply about all three perspective characters. I was immediately fascinated by Chloe when, within the first few pages, she had revealed that her true purpose at this school was to murder a student who had wronged her in the past. The way in which these passages were worded brought to mind an unrequited crush, which I thought was an interesting, and hilarious, juxtaposition to the murder plotting. The open, unapologetic honesty with which Chloe viewed herself charmed me despite her total lack of moral compass. Character revelations about Charles and Andre come later in the plot, but suffice it to say that they won me over, as well.Never Saw Me Coming was an incredibly balanced, well-paced novel featuring one of my favorite settings. I’m a sucker for campus novels, and this was definitely a good one. I love that it gave me plenty of food for thought while still keeping me highly entertained. I honestly would have loved more time experiencing classes and the program though the characters’ eyes, but I’m content with the solid, character-driven mystery I was given instead.
3855264918	Actual rating: 4.5 starsNever Saw Me Coming is one of the most engaging and absorbing thrillers I have read this year. It’s so good!!!!Right from chapter one I was hooked on the story. Chloe, a freshman at John Adams University in Washington D.C, is a diagnosed psychopath. She’s been given a full ride scholarship to attend the University if she participates in a study about psychopaths set up by a program director at the University, Dr. Wyman. But Chloe has a dark secret and has given herself 60 days to finish something she has been plotting for years. That premise alone would have drawn me in, but we also get perspectives from several other students in the study as well as the psychologist, Dr. Wyman. Multiple POVS, especially in a thriller, always make the story better IMO. It added to the tension and suspense in a satisfying way. The main characters were interesting and I found the discussion and exploration of psychopathy fascinating. The author has a PhD in social psychology and you can tell. My slight criticism is with a few of the secondary characters whom I wish had been more fleshed out and would have made the ending more impactful. The pacing was masterfully done. I’m amazed that this is the author’s first book! Whenever the story came close to slowing down, we’d get another revelation or clue that would get me excited about the plot again. And it was smartly written. Too many times I read thrillers and mysteries that have so many plot holes and characters who do things that don’t make sense, but I barely found any of this in Never Saw Me Coming. A few minor things gave me pause, but on the whole I was super impressed at how much thought went into plotting this story. I’d highly recommend Never Saw Me Coming if you are looking for a fast-paced thriller with an unusual premise and enough red herrings to keep you doubting your predictions until the very end. Thank you to NetGalley and Harlequin/Park Row Books for an advanced readers copy of this book in exchange for an honest opinion.
4009894967	I’m not sure what it says about me but I absolutely love books about psychopaths and if they are female – all the better, so when I heard about this book and read the blurb it appealed to my darker side.Never Saw Me Coming is the story of Chloe Sevre, a pretty and bubbly freshman who has just started University. She’s excited about making new friends, fitting in with the right crowd, going to as many parties as possible and killing Will Bachman! What sets Chloe aside from her fellow students is that she is a real fully diagnosed psychopath and is taking part in a secret clinical study alongside 6 other psychopaths run by a renowed psychologist in the University.These seven student psychopaths are not supposed to meet each other or interact but when two of the group are murdered within the first few weeks of term, Chloe tracks down the remaining group in an attempt to stop the killer so she can continue her own personal deadly agenda.As pyschopaths have a tendancy to lie, have an inability to show remose or empathy and unable to distinguish between right and wrong, it was highly amusing to watch Chloe try to build up friendships and relationships with the rest of group and their ability not to trust each other resulted in some entertaining but inappropriate circumstances.This is a fun and entertaining book with a loveable main character and whilst I don’t agree with murdering your classmates, when you find out more about Chloe’s past and why she wants to kill Will, you have even more sympathy towards her.Never Saw Me Coming is the debut novel by Vera Kurian and if you like your books full of gruesome murders, some very unreliable narrators and an original storyline then I think you will enjoy this book.
4308341091	I really enjoyed this psychological thriller that had some dark humor mixed in. The main characters are psychopaths who are part of a clinical study at their university, which I thought was a great concept! This book has two plot lines. One is Chloe's plan for revenge against Will Bachman and the other revolves around a killer who is targeting the main characters. This story is told from multiple POVs but I liked Chloe the best. I found her to be a funny and entertaining psychopath! I listened to this on audio and really enjoyed it. Brittany Pressley did such a great job narrating!
4201259009	A secret school program for psychopaths? Whoa! Who thinks up this stuff? Vera Kurian does! I’ve never read anything by this author before. This is one psychological thriller you won’t forget! It started off good then got a little slow in the middle because I was having a hard time connecting to these psychopaths which I guess is a good thing I could not understand why they did what they did! Right? Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for this early release in exchange for my honest review. To be published September 2021.
4218764010	What do you call a group of psychopaths? I don't know, but when I read the blurb for this book I was instantly intrigued. The academic setting was very novel and the characters were terrifyingly well drawn. Absorbing, intense with a dash of dark humour. Never Saw Me Coming is a masterful thriller which kept me turning the pages for more.
4252868202	#NeverSawMeComing sucked me in right away and I devoured it. I really enjoyed the unique plot and short chapters. I wanted a little more from the ending but this is definitely my favorite #campusthriller book I’ve read so far!
