169819678	ooh... secret societies and gender politics...If you're female and between the ages of about 12 and 25, I cannot think of a single reason why you shouldn't read this book. It's fantastic. Both highly political and incredibly funny - it's the book I wish I'd been given to see me through being a teenager and to prepare me for later life. And no, I never went to an elite prep school with a bunch of stuffy trainee 'old boys' and a 60 year old all-male secret society... but I, like every girl I know, could have done with the reassurance that being your own person is more important than fitting the mold and that women are worth more than just a chest measurement. The story spoke to me on many levels and addressed issues that I have written articles on and feel very strongly about.On the surface, it's a high school tale of cliques, first loves and mischief - quite like the author's The Boyfriend List: 15 Guys, 11 Shrink Appointments, 4 Ceramic Frogs and Me, Ruby Oliver and the other Ruby Oliver books. I enjoyed reading about Ruby and frequently related to her but, for me, Frankie Landau-Banks was all the more kick-ass, funny and just so memorable. She's a 5-star heroine and the perfect partner in crime... if only she were real. The writing in this novel was flawless with some hilarious dialogue between the characters, particularly regarding some of Frankie's ridiculous neglected positives, it's such a silly idea that shouldn't be so funny but I have no idea how many times I must have laughed. Little scenes like this are what made the book for me:"They're not puppets, they're muppets," said Frankie. "I have a serious and justified love for Kermit that I will parage to the end.""Parage?""Parage. The neglected postive of disparage.""You mean defend. You will defend Kermit to the end.""Parage.""Praise?""Parage. I will parage him. And Animal, too. I love Animal. I used to watch that show on DVD all the time when I was little."Trish changed the subject. "We should do facials and paint our toenails Friday before they pick us up. What do you say, blow through dinner and come back here for girlie stuff?"Frankie said, "You're on. When we're finished, we'll be absolutely sheveled.""You'll be sheveled," said Trish. "I'm a normal person."I mean, come on, that's funny. And she's so effin' stubborn it's great. I just loved Frankie and loved the plot and loved the book. I took notes on the damn thing. No, really, there are parts of this book that you just have to note down. By 'you', of course, I actually mean me.I also want to point out for all you cynical people who "bah humbug" at novels set in high schools following a girl through her relationships and pranky misdeeds... this really is a great political statement. But it's in the dialogue and Frankie's awesomeness that it's revealed, sometimes subtle and sometimes not. My favourite thing about it is how the school represents today's society as a whole and the truths about the equality myth. Because, sadly, even though men and women are supposed to have the same opportunities and they are now allowed into the same professions, they sit at the same tables and they even become friends, beneath it all there is still an inner circle - rather like a secret society - that continues to slam the door in a woman's face. But better than this metaphor is the message behind it: that if you put your mind to it, you don't have to accept the way things are. That you have the ability to change the way of the world. Or the way of a prep school. Like Frankie does.
36571137	Next time I see a 15-year-old girl reading Twilight, I will promptly yoink it from her hands and replace it with this. (As long as she's not already dressed as a vampire.)
171864903	I've pushed through to 100 pages, but I just can't go on. For all its braininess, this book feels very juvenile to me, except that girls in most middle grade books are rarely this boy-crazy--and few of them have so little else going on their lives.Here are some things that make it feel very young to me:--the story seems to be centered around a "caper" in which Frankie tries to infiltrate a secret boys club--three boys who don't recognize Frankie after her body develops (or pretend not to, anyway)--a full page about boogers--occasional overuse of exclamation points--and above all else, the writing styleWritten in the third person with an occasional interruption by some unknown narrator, it's all done in arch prose that strives very hard to be humorous and clever without being very smart. Or deep. Or interesting. At least to me, because this book certainly has its share of fans.I'll leave you with just one paragraph so you can decide whether this writing floats your boat and if you want to read any further:Most young women, when confronted with the peculiarly male nature of certain social events--usually those incorporating beer or other substances guaranteed to kill off brain cells, and often involving either the freezing-cold outdoors or the near-suffocating heat of a filthy dorm room, but which can also, in more intellectual circles, include the watching of boring Russian films--will react in one of three ways.Honestly, the whole premise of this felt like a brain candy book disguised as something much more smart or meaningful. Boys aren't paying attention to you? Who cares? Not me.
122246128	mary lou retton two times!!this is the teen fiction the good girls read. girls without problems like anorexia or cutting or promiscuity or retrograde amnesia. the ones whose mothers don't need to worry about them rotting their brains on vampires and rainbow parties. the ones janis ian envied:"high school girls with clear skinned smiles who married young and then retired"i mean, it is published by disney, so i wasn't expecting smut and guts, but it's pretty precious and twee, qualities which usually give me the angers.reading the prologue, i thought i was going to hate it - all those cutesy perky wordplays - eventually you learn there is a reason for it, but that doesn't make it any less irritating.it is like the kid sister of special topics in calamity physics, a book i rather enjoyed, but i can totally understand other people's hatred of. at the end of the day, it is a cutesy adventure story for spunky girls. like... like... mary lou retton!there are a number of positive things about this book; smart girl with energy and a mischievous mind who tries to overthrow an all-male secret society (who hasn't been there, right??) but for all her grrl power, she ain't no feminist. even when attempting flirtation with her older boy love interest, she mentally tests and rejects a number of responses, rating them on the basis of "how he will respond and what it will say about me as a person." what happened to just being yourself, and not a weirdly manipulative and calculating freak? where is sassy magazine c. 1991 for this chick??and at the end THIS IS WHERE I AM TALKING A LITTLE ABOUT THE ENDING OF THE BOOK, DIG?? when she fails to win the respect of the boys she has been following around and on the one hand being a secret leader to, but on the other hand, really just trying to impress them so they will accept her regardless of her gender, she gets a little shrieky and petulant which just makes her come across as a victim, which is way unattractive. plus, the club she wants to get into is super-lame. a real girl-power book would have her start her own secret society with the couple of girls who are worth anything in this book and like band together in a prank-off (i mean, isn't this practically a disney template?? stop slacking, mickey...) and then it would all end in a spectacular floor routine in a leotard the color of victory.it's not painful to read or anything, but i have a feeling elizabeth would fulking HATE it...come to my blog!
30788997	First of all, I agree with feminism and equal opportunities and all that, and I appreciate that this book had a "girl power" theme, but the main character was not a good representation of an admirable woman. She was intelligent and competative, but was also the worst stereotype of a jealous, conniving, sneaky bitch. I thought she made girls look totally bad. She was jealous that her boyfriend was in a secret all-male social club, and was somehow insulted that she wasn't invited and that he wouldn't tell her about it. Frankie, it's a secret boys club! Start your own secret girls club! That's my opinion. She was so annoying. If a character said something like, for example, "boys are more agressive than girls because of their testosterone"—which is true, right? (I personally believe there wouldn't be any wars if there weren't any men) she jumped all over them with a smart rebuttal. Her boyfriend couldn't even call her "adorable" or give her his shirt to wear without arising the debate of: is he marking his territory or does he respect her for her mind? These are good questions to ask, but the problem I have is, I did not buy that Frankie was in love with Matthew at all, even though the book said she was. The book also did not acknowledge any such thing as chemistry between them. Frankie was all sore that Matthew's buddies had higher status than she did with him; how DARE he put them before HER when she has been going out with him for THREE WHOLE MONTHS! OMG! Maybe another reason I didn't connect with Frankie was the brisk tone of the book. Her story was chronicled with a hip, journalistic brevity. My last thoughts: guys love to do guy things; what's wrong with that? They will play video games and watch sports till the end of time, and ignore their women while doing it. Frankie, ironically, seemed so needy. I thought Frankie went about making her point in the wrong way (she basically broke a lot of rules) and ultimately, it was about getting the attention of the boys.
1064930059	Gah, I loved this book so incredibly much, but upon finishing I find myself so RILED UP and ANGRY on Frankie's behalf and I understand her frustrations so fully. The feminist themes in this story were executed with grace and keen wit, and it never felt preachy. I just wanted to reach in the book and hug Frankie and let her know that some day, people on Tumblr would totally understand what she's going through. Her struggles were so real and I just enjoyed it so immensely. Highly recommend.
1126989906	See more reviews at YA Midnight ReadsReading The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks just goes to show that loving one book by an author doesn't guarantee you'll love every book by that said author. (I should know this after reading so many books but no, I am a person who never learns ._.) I read We Were Liars almost a year ago and well, let's just say it made my top 10 reads of 2014. (If you want to know why I loved it, I suggest you check out the discussion review/fangirling session Celine and I did.) Unfortunately for this book, there's no doubt it won't be landing my top 10 for 2015.It is better to be alone, she figures, than to be with someone who can’t see who you are. It is better to lead than to follow. It is better to speak up than stay silent. It is better to open doors than to shut them on people.So apparently, this is a feminist book. I cannot remember who told me that it was, but I certainly went into this thinking it was going to be a pro-feminist read. Yet nope, I didn't see The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks as a feminist novel at all. We are introduced to Frankie as a strong-headed and determined girl who doesn't like being talked to condescendingly and hates taking 'no' for an answer. I wanted to love this girl, for she initially sounded like someone I can strongly identify with, but I soon was proved wrong--Frankie got less likeable more and more throughout the book. Here are the reasons why I was completely ticked off by her.Frankie gets pretty irked when she discovers that there is a secretive all boys society which is known as the Basset Hounds. Her boyfriend, Matthew Livingstone, is apart of it too and what pisses her of more is that Matthew did not tell her about this society. Soon Frankie decides that she wants in on this all males society which, to me, sounded completely absurd in the first place. I mean really, the things that the boys do in this society is so freakin' lame. Anyways, Frankie soon starts stalking her boyfriend and decides that the only way she'll get into the Basset Hounds is to prove to the boys that she's way better than all of them. Which, didn't make any sense to me. If Frankie felt that she was better than the boys, why even bother dealing with in the first place?--they're not worth her time and efforts. And this leads me to my second complaint about Frankie. She was constantly trying to prove herself to Matthew and the other boys. When one of the boys said something to her (mainly Matthew), Frankie would analyse and go through all the possible responses then select the best one to reply with for the Matthew and the boys to respect her more. Essentially, this book was about Frankie who followed the boys around everywhere just so she could get their approval of her. Does that sound like a feminist novel to you?No, I didn't think so.And don't let me get started on how much the boys in this novel annoyed me. These boys don't recognise (or admit to recognise) a girl until she starts getting fat in the right places. HOW RIDICULOUS IS THAT?What I did appreciate about this novel was Frankie's wit. She's a really smart girl, who just didn't put her efforts in the right places. I particularly liked Frankie's 'neglected positive' words and it was really entertaining to read about. Sure, her motives and ideas totally sucked, but there were a few positives about Frankie, and I'm not ready to just forget them despite how much I hated the plot line. In my opinion, E. Lockhart tried to achieve too much here. This is certainly not a feminist novel and so many characters here put me on edge and how obviously rude they were (namely, the boys--like Matthew Livingstone). I won't be recommending this book, so if you want to try E. Lockhart, I suggest you turn to a much better novel by her; We Were Liars. ~Thank you Allen and Unwin Australia for sending me this copy~ ---
21509834	Frankie Landau-Banks does for the patriarchy what Little Brother does for homeland security. It's a guide for the uninitiated (Michel Foucault with training wheels!), a call to arms, and a manual for taking action against it. It also has some great pranks in it. Frankie is a sophomore at Alabaster, one of the nation's best preparatory schools, which is filled mostly with people who are white, protestant, and richer than God. Over the course of the summer she suddenly becomes hot, and catches the eye of Matthew Livingston, who is cute, and powerful, and rich, and funny.He also happens to be one of the Kings of Alabaster's secret (and all-male) Loyal Order of Basset Hounds. Frankie knows, vaguely, about the Hounds - her father was one - but when she comes to realize that she'll always just be a girl in Matthew's social circle, there to be adorable but never powerful, always underestimated, always disposable, always erasable, she decides to mastermind the Basset Hounds' return to their former pranking glory. It's icing on the cake if she can finally get some decent vegetables in the salad bar. This doesn't do justice to how well Lockhart writes about the social order. I couldn't get into Tamora Pierce because she is writing about the overt, out-loud sexism to which I've never really been exposed. But I've lived through what Lockhart is talking about: the way you pretend it's interesting to watch your guy friends play video games because you don't want to be relegated to the role of that girl who bakes crumbles while her guy friends are playing video games. The way that you get subtly ignored and underestimated. And what's cool is that for all it's such a feminist book, Frankie is allowed to read gossip magazines, and paint her nails, and basically - she's allowed to be stereotypically feminine AND bring down the patriarchy. I don't do stereotypical femininity very well, but that only has so much to do with feminism. It's NOT about the big power structures that Frankie goes up against. And Frankie is also allowed to be prideful, and insecure, and way too much in love for her own good, and that never undermines who she is as a criminal mastermind. One of the year's best YA books.
2203459575	This book has aged so well. I am continually impressed with this author's compelling story-lines and unforgettable characters, and this book is no exception. Frankie's feminist ideologies and consistent challenging of the patriarchy made this book have continual resonance and relevance today. Definitely one of the thematically strongest contemporary stories I have read.
302566680	Rating: 4.5 Stars I did not expect to enjoy this book as much as I did, especially since I found the first third of the novel to be excruciatingly boring and hard to get through, not to mention I hated the narration style with a passion. Yet, despite all that, Lockhart's novel truly spoke to me. It's marketed as being a feminist novel and while in some ways it definitely is, in more ways than one I feel as if it is simply a coming-of-age story about a girl who was discovering herself, what she wanted from life, and how she wanted to be perceived. Frankie Landau-Banks attends Alabaster Prep Academy, the private institution which her older sister and father attended as well. Now a sophomore, Frankie has grown over the summer into a beautiful young girl from the once scrawny kid she used to be and consequently, has captured the attention of Matthew Livingston, the senior everyone wants to date. When Frankie and Matthew begin to go out, Frankie begins to notice that Matthew seems to keep secrets from her, thus, she stumbles upon an all-boys secret society and sets out to beat the boys at their own game, hoping to get Matthew to confess his secret doings to her in the process. What really happens though, is quite different, clever, and can only be described as genius! ;) "Frankie looked into his face. He genuinely liked her, she knew. Maybe even loved her. He just loved her in a limited way. Loved her best when she needed help.Loved her best when he could set the boundaries and make the rules. Loved her best when she was a smaller, younger person than he was, with no social power. When he could adore her for her youth and charm and protect her from the larger concerns of life." (Page 313) In my opinion, The Disreputable History... is the perfect novel of this day and age. Not only is literature being bombarded with female protagonists who are distinctly weak and rely on men, but it is female authors who are creating characters like these. Thus, the character of Frankie, of a girl who wants to be known and loved for herself, for her potential, for her brilliance and not for her ability to listen to her boyfriend, do what he says, and agree with his every action, is startlingly refreshing. The Disreputable History... is a story of many things - secret all male societies, school pranks, and feminism - but at the heart of it all, it is the novel about the relationship between sophomore Frankie and her senior boyfriend, Matthew. You see, Frankie only infiltrates her boyfriend's secret society because she wants him to trust her, to see her as his equal, and to quit distinguishing her from others solely because of her gender. I think these are qualities that every woman should strive to achieve in a relationship - equality - but in some ways, I almost think Lockhart takes the character of Frankie a bit too far. While I loved this novel, Lockhart portrays Frankie as a "type." She is the "type" of girl who has been underestimated all her life, who has been lied to so that the perpetrators lying to her can feel in power and who has simply been excluded from the close-knit friend circle of the Basset Hounds, the secret society, which she so desperately craves. Thus, because she is this "type," she becomes a feminist and resorts to standing up for herself. I liked this - I really did - but I didn't like how Lockhart categorizes Frankie into one type and other girls as another. I wish she had been able to find a balance because while I admire Frankie and hold her up on a pedestal for exposing the truths that every young woman should strive to attain, she almost goes too far. I guess my qualm with this can be summed up to be that Frankie is that feminist who refuses to let a man even hold a door open for her and what I really wished for this novel to be was about a teenager who found a balance between securing her rights and being willfully feminine and adored, but unfortunately that didn't happen. It isn't the fault of the novel, for it is impeccably written and gets its point across perfectly, it is simply my own fault as the reader. Nevertheless, for all my adoration of this story, I can see why many people would be thrown off by it. I, on the other hand, was seemingly able to connect with Frankie due to my own life experiences - I fear that without them, I don't think I would have felt much of a draw to Frankie, which is another unfortunate fault of the narration. (I think the only time when I’ve enjoyed the type of narration where the narrator talks back to the reader in a seemingly cryptic way is Lemony Snicket’s A Series of Unfortunate Events, so if you’re not a fan of this style, this might be a little tough for you to get through.) You see, Frankie feels left out by this secret society her boyfriend attends and while it seems like a silly thing to get so worked up over, I actually understood Frankie perfectly! India, as you may or may not know, has a history of denying equal rights and freedom to women. Thankfully, this is changing in today’s society and women and men are treated equally; nevertheless, there did still remain a few restrictions in more traditional villages, as I learned upon visiting my grandfather’s home when I was merely twelve. While visiting the local temple near his home, which had a very powerful deity, I first became aware of the fact that my being a woman made me so drastically different from my younger brother. How? You see, my father and brother were permitted into the temple to an area where only the priest is allowed. When I went to follow them, I was denied because I was a girl. I know, it seems silly but it made such a marked difference on my life. When I questioned my father about it later, he said it was an old custom, but being a very old-fashioned man, he also added that it was a blessing to be born a girl as he did not have to pay a tax on me. This was the first time I was made aware that my father paid a tax for each member of his family and the money went to our family temple. Rather than placating me though, this only made me angrier as I was now so inconsequential that I wasn't even deemed worthy to be paid money for existing! (I later learned that the reason this was a good thing was because the money paid on behalf of my father and brother went to buying gifts for me, which obviously placated me immensely because that just meant MORE BOOKS, but by the time I learned this it was just a little bit too late for my inner-feminist to recede inside me.) Nevertheless, the point is, I was able to connect with Frankie simply because I had experienced injustice in my life merely for being born a woman. I think most people can relate to similar experiences in their life and thus will be able to connect with Frankie, but based solely on the narration, I would definitely find it difficult to understand where Frankie’s strong emotions stemmed from. “A tiny part of her wanted to go over to him and shout, ‘I can feel like a hag some days if I want! And I can tell everybody how insecure I am if I want! Or I can be pretty and pretend to think I’m a hag out of fake modesty – I can do that if I want, too. Because you, Livingston, are not the boss of me and what kind of girl I become.’” (Page 79) The Disreputable History... isn't a perfect book, but it is one I would recommend to everyone. It deserves to be read and the messages and themes it brings out are ones that every woman needs to understand. Furthermore, Frankie is such a strong, smart, and witty character than you cannot help but want to be her friend and give her a good ‘ol slap on the back for the pure brilliance of her ideas. While this novel definitely did have its fair share of flaws, I think the overall feeling of excitement, hope, and joy that it leaves with the reader, as well as some of the most memorable scenes ever, make this a truly phenomenal novel. It's a book that exudes such power and confidence and femininity that you walk away from it feeling so proud to be a woman. (Take that Bella Swan and Anastasia Steele and every other Mary Sue out there! HA!) In summary, The Disreputable History is just a story of how one girl takes down an all-male secret society and proves that girl power is awesome. Now, who doesn’t want to read a book like that? ;) You can read this review and more on my blog, Ivy Book Bindings.
42366446	Blah. Having heard so much good buzz about this book (and this author), I decided to check it out. Unfortunately, I couldn't even finish the book, and it makes me wonder why this book is on anyone's list of the best books of the year. The writing style irritated me, as it was trying overly hard to be cutesy and funny, with lots of paragraphs reading like, "She thought ____. Then ______. And then ____." Lame. Furthermore, I didn't even like any of the characters, and Frankie (the main character) was written as if she's supposed to be the smartest, wittiest kid around, and I just didn't get that. I tried to keep reading, since it is a short book, but I had to put it down after realizing that I just didn't care what happened. Don't think I'll be trying to read anything else by this author.
111635744	How is it that this book so popular and well received? Frankie Landau-Banks is a bright, witty girl with issues. Lots and lots of issues which never get resolved let alone addressed. We meet her at the beginning of her sophomore year at the highly prestigious boarding school, Alabaster Preparatory Academy. In a moment that is clearly a blatant Three’s Company rip-off, Frankie is so distracted by the butt of her longtime crush, Matthew Livingston, that she falls from her bicycle. Matthew hears the crash and rushes to her aid, thus beginning Frankie’s transformation from a normal teenage girl into an Anita Blake in the making.*shields ears from loud booing of Frankie fans who know what a wackjob Anita Blake is*The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks at first glance appears to be a cute girl power book. But that couldn’t be further from the truth. As I mentioned, Frankie has Issues. The main plot of this story revolves around Frankie attempting to infiltrate, control and overthrow the Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds, which is the secret all-male society that her boyfriend Matthew is a member of. However, so much more comes into play in this novel. A main subject of course is feminism. Frankie can’t stand the idea of a club that she is excluded from simply because of her gender. Although she justifies screwing with this club by expressing a desire to shake up societal norms…. she also wants to impress the guys. So many times while hanging out with Matthew and his friends, Frankie laments that these guys never noticed her before she developed curves, or that if she and Matthew were to break up his friends wouldn’t continue a friendship with her. She takes extreme offense to Matthew’s best friend, Alpha, competing with her for Matthew’s attention. And while she occasionally thinks she lurves Matthew, she always feels patronized by him. Yeah he is super-hot, funny, charming and a good kisser but he never really listens to her or makes her feel appreciated or needed in the way she wants, needs and expects to be. So does Frankie:Form her own super-secret all girl society?Have a heart to heart and angsty talk with her best friend or older sister about all the reasons why her relationship with Matthew isn’t all it’s cracked up to be?Talk with Matthew honestly and openly?Act like a 15 year old girl and rag Matthew about spending so much time with his friends? None of the above. She spies on Matthew. She covertly infiltrates his secret club. She surreptitiously becomes a better Basset Hound than any Basset Hound member in recent years, yet is depressed that Matthew does not guess that she is behind everything. Frankie, while spouting feminist ideals, is motivated by attracting the attention of and impressing the guys. In this singular pursuit, Frankie alienates and withholds secrets from her best (and only close) friend. She passes up social activities she used to enjoy in favor of Matthew. She mopes when she has to spend an entire Thanksgiving weekend away from Matthew.It’s all about Matthew. I’m hesitant to point out the fact that Frankie becomes crazy obsessed with Matthew’s participation with the Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds after only a week or two of dating, because I do remember those high school days when one month was a long term relationship. Even so, Frankie is competing for Matthew’s affections against guys who have been close friends with him for years. It’s a lost battle from the start. My concern with this novel isn’t that Frankie freaks out a little bit and becomes a slightly psycho girlfriend. It’s that she is clearly written to be a role model for girls everywhere. Frankie is not pursuing feminist ideals or notions. She is simply an emotionally immature little girl who is feeling excluded. Forcing people to see you or respect you is not being a feminist. Your boyfriend calling you, “sweet”, “pretty” or “adorable” isn’t chauvinistic. And a group of guys participating in a decades old all-male secret society isn’t (necessarily) discriminating. Frankie’s pissing contest with the guys, her abrasiveness, her reading so many thoughts, actions and hidden meanings into the simplest word a person utters doesn’t make her a strong positive female role model. It makes her Anita Blake. Like Anita, Frankie is obsessed with power. How to get it, who has it, who wants it. Everything is a power struggle to her. And like Anita, Frankie doesn’t give a shit what others think (although she really and truly does care what the guys think).”Frankie appreciated both the accolades and the rejections equally, because both meant she’d had an impact. She wasn’t a person who needed to be liked so much as she was a person who liked to be notorious.” Shortly before starting The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks, I finished Dairy Queen. That was an amazing feminist book. Protagonist D.J.Schwenk makes a gender defying move to go out for her high school football team. Unlike Anita Frankie, she doesn’t have something to prove. She simply enjoys playing football and is good at it… so why not? Frankie, for all of her smarts, simply hasn’t learned the lesson that sometimes people don’t like you. Sometimes you can’t be a part of the group. Sometimes a guy is always going to choose his friend over his girl. The phrase, “You can’t change another person’s behavior but you can change your reaction to it” is a lesson that would serve Frankie well. Unfortunately as the novel ended Frankie had not learned a lesson or changed her ways. Frankie’s mother and sister insist she see a counselor who helps her to, ”explore her “aggression” and to work on channeling her impulses into more socially appropriate activities. The counselor suggested competitive team sports as a positive outlet, and pushed Frankie to join the girls’ filed hockey team. That was not a productive solution.It was the girls’ team.Boys didn’t even play field hockey.Boys thought nothing of field hockey.Frankie was not interested in playing a sport that was rated as nothing by the more powerful half of the population.” Frankie would be a great contest on Survivor I would love to see E. Lockhart write a book about Frankie in her twenties. When she grows up to be a smart, independent young woman who has calmed down since her high school days and takes into consideration the following:Power, feminism and respect don’t always involve defying social order and expectations. By trying so very hard to permeate the Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds, Frankie gave the group so much more power than if she would have simply ignored their existence. Men and women have differences and that is okay.
2935328964	Sleek, smart, artistic and yet very subtle, The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks is a very entertaining, very funny YA boarding school story that takes up pranks and secret societies to a whole new level and in the process rightfully condemning patriarchy and proudly raising the flag of feminists. I enjoyed the use of word play so much, the neglected positives. I thought they were really funny. I was very much “turbed” with the writing because I was definitely not “perturbed.” Lol. But really, I think the plot is very clever, something you don’t read every day. Frankie who brilliantly found a way to infiltrate and manipulate the members of this all-male secret society called “The Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds” by making them do all her bidding to instigate pranks against the Alabaster’s (this used-to-be-all-boys-elite-prep-school) mostly patriarchal culture and symbolisms. The literary references are quite impressive. I think this book can be a really good resource for a post-grad study on literature, language or even philosophy. Don’t know why it took me this long to read another book by Ms. Lockhart since I read We Were Liars but after this, I am definitely going to look into her other books.
38530269	I may get a few boos for this one. But I couldn't quite like it*. Blame it on the tense. Third person past tense (as far as I can reckon). Or blame it on the expostulating tone, purposefully pretentious and off-putting. A blend of intelligence and condescension. It's not like every page was of this style, but there were little asides by the narrator--I suppose it's the narrator--that just intruded in on the story. Created too much distance for my taste. Added in too much reflection. How does a person become the person she is? What are the factors in her culture, her childhood, her education, her religion, her economic stature, her sexual orientation, her race, her everyday interactions--what stimuli lead her to make choices other people will despise her for? This chronicle is an attempt to mark out the contributing elements in Frankie Landau-Banks's character. What led her to do what she did: things she would later view with a curious mixture of hubris and regret. Frankie's mental processes had been stimulated by Ms. Jensson's lectures on the panopticon , her encounters with Alpha, her mother's refusal to let her walk into town on the Jersey Shore, her observation of the joy Matthew took in rescuing her from her bicycle accident, and her anger at Dean for not remembering her. All these were factors in what happened next... (107)I do like several things about it however. I just have a love-hate relationship with the narrative style. There are paragraphs that I love, and there are paragraphs that I hate. Phrases that I think are a bit too much, and phrases that I think are just right. I like how the first chapter begins, for example, "Though not, in hindsight, so startling as the misdeeds she would perpetrate when she returned to boarding school as a sophomore, what happened to Frankie Landau-Banks the summer after her freshman year was a shock." I think both the prologue and the first few chapters offer quite a hook or incentive to readers.Frankie is a boarding school student whose sophomore year presents great opportunities for adventure and misadventure. She'll experience the ups and downs of having a relationship with a "popular" boy, a real somebody. Rich too. Her old friendships will be threatened by the aforementioned relationship and all that brings about. Frankie is smart. She's determined. She's got her own way of seeing the world. And none of those things are bad. All quite good actually.It's not Frankie that I dislike but the meddling narrator who likes to tell instead of show.*I'll qualify this statement. Based on the all the buzz, the hype, I couldn't "like" it as much as I "should". See, this is one that has been getting love all over the place. People saying it's the best of the best, one of the year's must-reads. A book people are just raving about. I didn't think it was that good, that deserving. But it's a good read. A solid read. I wouldn't put this one in my top ten of the year. I probably wouldn't even have it in the top twenty. But it is a good book all the same. In other words, I've read dozens and dozens that I disliked more than this one.This is neither here nor there. But one of the things I found unbelievable was that Frankie's sister, Zada, took her under her wing. Zada's a senior. Frankie was a freshman. She let Frankie sit with her and her junior and senior friends at lunch. She allowed Frankie to tag along with her. To be a part of her "cool" set of friends. I have a hard time believing that even a good sister would do this. I shared two years of school with my sister, we overlapped two years I mean, and never once would I have been encouraged/allowed to sit with her at lunch. To hang out with her friends at school. It was one thing to be allowed to tag along after school (on occasion) or at home.© Becky Laney of Becky's Book Reviews
2642606620	I loved Frankie! This story is about a girl who changes her attitude, turning into a mastermind. Even tho nobody knew that she was the author of all the things that were happening at Alabaster, in the end her efforts were recognized and she had nothing to lose. She became a strong girl who proved that girls have great ideas too. And that they should never be seen inferior to guys. 👍
39110596	You have found yourself in a formerly all-male boarding school. You are not the coolest girl on campus, nor do you even make the effort to put yourself out there and be social. Instead, you find a way to make the entire school bend to your will, causing trouble everywhere you go, pursuing crazy hijinks, creating your own bit of grammar (neglected positives) and being worshipped by the high school proletariat. When it comes down to the wire, do you come out on top, ruling the school for years and leaving a legacy no one can forget? No, you just whine about it and go back inside your little turtle shell.
1230624428	Probably one of the best YA books I've ever read. It's quirky, and I can see why some people wouldn't like it. But it's a fist-punching triumph of a feminist manifesto. I wish I'd read this when I was sixteen. I wanted to highlight most of the whole book.
1283001211	I decided to read this book pretty soon after buying it because, although I didn't have much of an idea what it was about, it sounded like a really interesting story. I quite enjoyed this book; it was an empowering story about a young girl struggling to overcome the gender stereotype imposed on her. I think Frankie was a good protagonist but she was a little bit too young for my liking. When I was 15 I was very unsure of who I was as a person and would not have had the courage to do something like Frankie, so I suppose in that way I was unable to relate to her but that could just be me. I really enjoyed that this story had such a strongly feminist main character and I also loved that the feminist message of the story was not forced upon me as a reader. The pranks were a really light-hearted way to derail the patriarchal Basset Hounds.I think Matthew was a bit of an ass, despite how cute he was. He was lying to Frankie so often and it really frustrated me that she was such a strong female character but allowed Matthew to walk all over her with his secrecy. She seemed like she was above that and he was so douchey near the end of the book that it made me hate him.Overall I think this is a really nice book and I definitely enjoyed E.Lockhart's writing. There was some real beauty to it although it was so simple. This story is nice but it wasn't amazing- it's very easy to read and the ending kind of just happens, there's nothing to it. Although I am glad I read this book, I am in no hurry to rave about it or reread it.
18772946	** spoiler alert ** According to the back cover, Frankie Landau-Banks as a freshman in high school was a slightly geeky girl in the Debate Club. But when she comes back the next year, nobody recognizes her because now she fills out her shirt. And that grabs the attention of a certain senior boy named Matthew Livingston, who soon becomes Frankie’s boyfriend.But Frankie isn’t content. Matthew often acts distant and doesn’t treat her like an intelligent human being. So one day when he cancels their date, she follows him and discovers that he’s a member of an all-male secret society. Frankie wants in, but there’s no way she can without him Matthew out that she lied to him. Frankie knows she has the brains to get in, so she creates a false email account through which she directs the secret society into performing various pranks.Although these pranks have the desired effect of reforming some of the school’s practices, no one seems to understand the significance, and whenever Frankie tries to explain it, people write her off as thinking too hard. And of course, the pranks can’t last forever. Someone has to step up and take the blame.The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks was an incredible novel and one that I won’t forget for a long time because it provided a lot of food for thought. It got me thinking about concepts I never would’ve thought of before. Frankie’s character is a mad genius and a work of art by E. Lockhart. I don’t think I’ve ever read a novel with such an amazing and unique character as Frankie is. It was kind of strange how fast Frankie thought, but that is just part of her character. The ending was only slightly surprising, but then it was foreshadowed.I highly recommend this novel to everyone, and it has become one of my favorites. Those who like secret societies such as the one in Secret Society Girl by Diana Peterfreund will enjoy reading about the Loyal Order of the Basset Hound. Readers who like the boarding school setting will also enjoy this novel. I look forward to reading more novels by E. Lockhart, and all of you should look forward to when this novel comes out on the 25th of March.
1404779691	Asemănător, tematic, cu „Mincinoșii”, dar nu la nivelul său! :) O lectură OK, poate puțin cam redundantă și light. Două stele sunt perfecte!
42467958	I read The Boyfriend List awhile back and enjoyed it but somehow didn't make it on to its sequel, The Boy Book, or any of E. Lockhart's other titles. Then The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks came out and there was just so much buzz. And then it was named a finalist for the National Book Award. So I figured I'd better pick it up. Fortunately, Santa brought it to my home this year so I was able to jump right in.Frankie is a sophomore at Alabaster Prep, super exclusive boarding school for the children of the elite. Ever since she was a kid, Frankie had heard her father and his cronies go on about a mysterious secret society known as the Loyal Order of the Basset Hounds. Once she starts at Alabaster it becomes clear that the Order is alive and thriving and open only to males. When she suddenly gains a few curves in the right places and a snazzy new boyfriend to go with them, Frankie becomes aware in a way she hadn't been up to this point in her life. And when the darling boyfriend starts evading her all the time, haring off to locales unspecified with other guys she just knows are in the Order, she decides to follow him. What she discovers from following Matthew (and the subsequent actions she puts into motion) change Frankie (and the Order) permanently. For the better? That's up to the reader. I say yes, but the whole thing is still painful to watch.I am a bit conflicted over this book. For a variety of reasons. I felt like it really wanted to be Secret Society Girl meets Looking for Alaska. Not the best combination, IMO. This wasn't helped by the fact that I kept picturing Alpha (my favorite character) as The Colonel in my head. I usually quite like third person present narration, but in this case it felt slightly contrived, particularly since Frankie never gelled into a tangible character for me. I laughed several times while reading and I liked Frankie but I didn't love her. I liked her for her dogged attempt to wade through the ever shifting waters of a rather assaultive adolescence and an unsympathetically exclusionary pack of boys who told her they liked her but clearly didn't know her at all, nor did they seem to care to. Despite these obstacles, or perhaps because of them, she managed to carve out a place where she could be herself, free from manipulation. I liked her combative and compelling relationship with Alpha. In fact, I wanted more of that and less mooning over lackluster Matthew. But the book ended just when things were getting interesting. I suspect I would really enjoy a sequel.
55260531	Who loves getting a big reward with only a little investment? I do! That's how I felt after reading The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks by E. Lockhart. On its shiny teenybopper romance quartz surface, the book appears to be a fairly short young adult fictional novel about a prestigious prep school and the cliques and social hierarchy that exist there. But, underneath its surface, there is an impressive amount of philosophical gold. Frankie Landau-Banks starts off her sophomore year at Alabaster with the same mindset she had from her freshman year. She has a nice group of friends, but not too many, she gets good grades, has a crush on a cute senior and obeys her overprotective mother. Over the summer, however, she morphed from an awkward fourteen year-old into a stunning young woman, and the changes in her physical appearance are quickly noticed and appreciated by the rich, beautiful and powerful crowd at her school. As she is drawn into a world where opportunities seem endless and consequences invisible, Frankie develops an appetite for that lifestyle and begins to challenge the unwritten rules that threaten to keep her away from it. I suppose one can think of this as a pro-feminism rah-rah tale, but I think it's more about personal agency and empowerment than gender. Certainly, Frankie is female therefore most of her why-can't-I's had to do with the exclusion she felt from not being allowed into the all-male secret Basset Hound society, but the scope of the novel goes far beyond what girls can and cannot do. The idea of the panopticon - or the idea that people follow rules because they never know who may be watching - is such a delightfully profound concept cleverly disguised as teenage peer pressure. Of course, there are a lot more rules to follow and a lot more angst about what people think about you if you don't follow certain rules when you're a teenager, but that ponopticon doesn't go away upon completion of high school. Most of our lives are controlled by it - for good and bad. Without it, there would be anarchy and with it there is integrity, but, as our young protagonist points out, it usually brings fear, limits and status quos too. Should you desire, when you finish thinking about what you do when no one is watching, there are a lot of ideas about feminism to consider, not to mention nepotism, reverse psychology and the possibility we are all puppets being controlled by secret societies. Or, you can simply enjoy Frankie's delightfully fresh coming-of-age story. I loved cheering for her. And jeering too.
1124588129	åh, denna blev megasträckläsning! och det var ju ändå tur, om en tänker på förväntningarna jag hade efter Kanske är det allt (...). älskar Frankie, även om hon nog nästan blir lite väl galen, älskar humorn, älskar ifp:erna (även om jag tänker att det blir ännu bättre i original). miljön och det hemliga sällskapet hade egentligen varit nog för att få mig på fall, men det här är förutom en väldigt underhållande bok, en himla smart en. Frankie analyserar allting och är en strateg in i det sista. hon är knivskarp och feminismen genomsyrar allt utan att bli härskande. det här är helt enkelt en perfekt blandning som påminner mycket om Rory och Logan i Gilmore Girls. tycker alla ska läsa! ah, sån underbar läsupplevelse :')
89748029	This is my second read of “The Disreputable History” and while I initially gave it a three star rating, I have since decided to give it an additional star. I would; however, like to note that Frankie still grates on me like sandpaper on bare ass.When I first read this book, I was thrown off the story as there isn’t a single “likeable” character that isn’t minor (i.e. Trish and Zada). The book’s heroine, Frankie, is described as attractive and intelligent, but as the story progresses, it is easy to ascertain that she is also deluded, hypocritical and pig headed. She makes terrible choices and yet is the first to throw stones on the choices and actions of others. I found it irritatingly duplicitous that she judged all her female peers for daring to enjoy being “feminine” (i.e. cooking and crafts) and yet was frustrated by the boys at her school for judging her for her gender. Was she not just as guilty? Furthermore, she secretly mocks these girls for being at these boys beck and call when Frankie’s every action is geared toward earning their approval. Even after the fallout and Frankie’s supposed self awareness takes hold, Frankie’s heart surges when Alpha praises her, this from a boy who treats women like dirt and whose entire persona is a lie. Even on the last page, she is pinning away after her ex, Matthew, hoping to earn a place in his good graces, until he makes it clear he has no interest, and then of course, she is better than him, he lacks awareness, etc. Yeah, right.So as I was saying, I was initially deterred by a book that possessed an unlikable heroine, a cheating ex-boyfriend, a patronizing current boyfriend, and a lying, arrogant womanaziser. If this book was meant to be about feminism, Lockhart missed the mark in Frankie. She isn’t a feminist; she’s a judgmental whack job, Zada and Trish, however, would have fit the bill perfectly. But then, I thought about it, and realized that perhaps that is the beauty of it. E.Lockhart has endeared herself to me as a favorite author because she pens such honest, authentic characters. I don’t like Frankie, I don’t respect her choices, I disagree with her assumptions, but there is no denying she is affecting, and more to the point, she is bona fide.“The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks” may make you grit your teeth, role your eyes, and dislike Frankie, but it will also force you to turn the pages for sheer readability, and perhaps may also cause you to realize that there is no such things as flawless, authentic characters, in life or in books, which for me, was the true moral of the story.
36625457	E. Lockhart is amazing. She took the gender-role of teenage girls and flipped it on it's ear. She gave us a smart character (mentally) who is still a teenage girl who wants and needs to be accepted socially. So when we see her making boneheaded choices, it makes sense and we feel bad for her and root for her because we know she can do better. And then, slowly, great pacing BTW, Lockhart and her protagonist Frankie Landau-Banks slam the reader with a joyful heaping of anarachy from Landau-Banks mind not her body. The end is a little cheesy, but the rest is so strong that I can hardly quibble with 2 pages of "The Moral of the Story."
77684741	This story had the promise of being one of the best stories of the year. It wasn't exactly my favorite novel, but it was great read nonetheless. Frankie was a great protagonist. She was an intelligent girl with her own mind, whose ambitions are nothing sort of a mastermind's. I was expecting a novel in which a girl proves herself and is adored by the whole school and a non-jerk boyfriend. Despite myself, I was expecting a happy romantic ending, and was pleasantly surprised when I was proved wrong. Feminists will adore this book.
1116874608	yes, feminism! yes, girl taking over her life! yes, girl sucking up to society!I loved this book. it's so carefully done. and left me full of will to take down our patriarchy!full review here: https://catshelf.wordpress.com/2016/0...
2086028618	Well-written, well-constructed, with a well-rounded character and oh my gosh. So good. The protagonist is smart and cunning. And ambitious. And did I already say smart? A kickass girl.
121182982	Frankie is a sophomore at her prestigious boarding school, trying to figure out where she fits in now that her popular sister has graduated. The previous year, no one really paid her any attention, especially Matthew Livingston, who is now the most gorgeous and popular senior at the school. But this year is different. This year people are noticing her. And when Matthew not only notices, but starts dating her, she doesn't think anything could be more perfect.....at first. But Frankie isn't happy just being someone's "arm candy". She has a brain, she has ambitions, she has ideas, but she is constantly underestimated: by her family, by her friends, and especially by Matthew.When Frankie finds out about a secret, exclusive, all-boys society that her boyfriend and his friends are involved in, Frankie decides she will show them that she's just as capable as they are.....maybe even more so.Let me get this out of the way, because I want my review to end on a positive note. I do NOT like the covers for this book. I would NEVER have picked it up if it weren't for the fact that I won it in a contest, and because of the recommendation of Kiersten White (author of Paranormalcy....my booklove). My other, semi-complaint is that I'm somewhat unsatisfied with the ending. Although logically it made sense, and the "girl-power" part of me was happy, I still wish there would have been a little more happiness at the end. I wanted Frankie to be happy, and at the end, I still felt bad for her.Ok, on with the good part:This pseudo-documentary shows us Frankie's transition from "nobody" to "evil genius mastermind" in a way that makes you quickly fall in love with her. I can't name a single female main character that I feel was better portrayed than Frankie was. Normally books are so focused on how hot and wonderful the guy in the story is, that I'm left wondering what was so great about the girl, and why all these guys are falling all over themselves for her. This was TOTALLY NOT the case with Frankie. Honestly, I thought Matthew was ok, but I completely fell in love with Frankie! She was so smart, and witty, and fun, and fresh! I loved that she could be so confident, but somehow at the same time still have all these insecurities, and while having the insecurities, she would realize her insecurities (and fears) and talk herself into going against them. She was such a schemer, and over-analyzed everything, but it was SO fun to read her internal dialog.I also loved all the word games, and the playful use of language (though younger readers may be thrown a little by it, or possibly bored). I found myself laughing out loud over and over again. Example-an email conversation between Frankie and her ex-boyfriend who cheated on her:Porter:Frankie, what's up? Hope your term is going well so far. I want to apologize for what happened with Bess last year. -PorterFrankie:You mean, you want to apologize, or you are apologizing? Your grammar is indistinct.Porter:This is me, apologizing. I apologize.Frankie:Also, "for what happened with Bess." Meaning, what? Is your vaguery advertent?Porter:Vaguery was inadvertent.For fooling around with Bess behind your back. You let nothing slide, do you?....How about a burger Wednesday?Frankie:Why should I have a burger with you? Give me three reasons. Porter:Free burger bought by me.Because I would like to be friends.Because there's something I want to talk to you about.Frankie:What do you want to talk about?Porter:I'll tell you when I see you. xo PorterFrankie:Don't xo me, Porter. Just because I'm letting you by me cheese fries doesn't mean you can xo me.I just LOVE her!! And actually, it wasn't just her, it seemed like almost all of the characters were quick and witty and a little bit snarky (in a good way). It reminded me of the dialog in The Gilmore Girls. :) Also, I think it must attest to the personality and wittiness of the author, so kudos to you miss Emily Lockhart!While the story acknowledges the existence of sex and drinking in high school, it isn't glorified or magnified. In fact, Frankie doesn't seem phased by anyone else's choices, but instead is very "comfortable in her own shoes," living the way she feels is best for her. I really appreciated that as well. She seems to let peer pressure roll off her like water off a duck's back! AND THE PRANKS! Did I mention the pranks? How much fun is that?? I loved that she masterminded all these pranks and made the "good 'ol boys" just follow along to her every command. How fantastic! It made me want to be a part of it! Actually I just wanted to BE Frankie!! I wish I was half as witty and courageous and inventive as she is. I could go on and on about this book....wait, I think I have. I have a feeling this is a book you'll either love or hate. For me, I loved it! I hope you'll give it a chance, and that you'll love it as much as I do!-Andye
1378123465	http://vanillamoonbooks.blogspot.ro/2...Deja familiară cu stilul uşor de citit al cărţilor lui E. Lockhart, intrigată de a doua jumătate a descrierii acestei "scandaloase poveşti", am aşteptat cu nerăbdare să văd cum va fi abordată tema societăţii exclusiviste pentru băieţi, dar şi dilmele adolescentine. Puţin temătoare că voi citi mai mult sau mai puţin aceeaşi poveste cu alte nume, ca în Mincinoşii de aceeaşi autoare, după un început nu prea în forţă, povestea a început să prindă contur şi să mi se arate în adevărata ei formă: o poveste nu numai despre viaţa de liceu şi descoperirea sinelui, ci şi despre cruda revelare a inegalităţii dintre sexe şi refuzul de a te încadra într-o etichetă pusă de societate pentru a putea fi acceptat şi plăcut. Frankie Landau-Banks este, în aparenţă, o adolescentă ca oricare alta, însă pe măsură ce se desfăşoară acţiunea, ea se confruntă cu absurditatea interdicţiei de a face aceleaşi lucruri la care au dreptul băieţii din liceul privat pe care îl frecventează. Tatăl ei făcuse şi el parte din clubul exclusivist pentru băieţi de a cărei existenţă află Frankie şi pe ale cărui secrete le păzeşte şi acum cu înfocare. Frankie începe să îl urmărească pe iubitul ei, care o minte fără reticenţă cu privire la activităţile lui extraşcolare şi pândeşte oportunitatea de a acţiona. "Pe măsură ce treceau săptămânile, Frankie începea să vadă că, deşi Matthew îi primea pe ceilalţi, cu surprinzătoare căldură, în lumea sa, nu-i trecea prin minte să pătrundă el însuşi în lumea altora. (...) Se aştepta ca ea să facă parte din viaţa lui, dar el nu devenise parte din viaţa ei." Astfel, ea preia cu şiretenie conducerea clubului în încercarea de a transmite un mesaj, însă constată cu indignare că acţiunile ei simbolice, deşi discutate cu pasiune de întregul liceu, nu sunt înţelese în profunzimea lor nici măcar de către prietenele ei, care nu văd nedreptatea ce o mână pe Frankie."Frankie nu accepta viaţa aşa cum se desfăşura în momentul acela. Era un element fundamental al personalităţii sale. Dacă se înmuia, n-avea să ajungă obedientă? N-avea să rămână pe o cale bătută, dreaptă şi frumos asfaltată?" Prima carte care abordează tema feminismului pe care am citit-o nu putea să nu aibă impact asupra mea, cu atât mai mult cu cât m-am înfruntat adesea în adolescenţă cu astfel de sentimente. Chiar dacă la prima vedere pare o lectură simplă, poate lipsită de substanţă, este exact contrariul. Mesajul pe care îl transmite este puternic şi de impact, mai ales pentru tinere, motiv pentru care recomand această carte oricărei fete sau femei care a simţit la un moment dat că nu are aceleaşi drepturi de care se bucură sexul tare, că se aşteaptă de la ea să fie "Iepuraşul" lui tata, o imagine mai degrabă decât o fiinţă; sau care, pur şi simplu, vrea o introducere în ceea ce înseamnă feminismul, ambalată într-o lectură puternică."Nu contase că, în adâncul sufletului, Frankie se ştia deşteaptă şi atrăgătoare.Contase că se simţise înlocuibilă. Că, pentru Porter, era o neica nimeni ce putea fi cu uşurinţă înclouită de un model mai bun - şi modelul mai bun nici măcar nu era cine ştie ce.Ceea ce însemna că Frankie însăşi era aproape neglijabilă." Mulţumesc Editurii Trei pentru exemplar. Cartea poate fi comandată cu transport gratuit de aici: http://bit.ly/1N2QbLm
1375726520	This review was originally published on Book Blog BirdI have to say, I really like E Lockhart’s writing style in this book. It’s totally different to the way she wrote We Were Liars, so if the style of We Were Liars put you off, this might be one to check out. The plot itself doesn’t have a huge amount going on. In a nutshell, Frankie attends a very white, very exclusive boarding school for the kids of parents who are richer than the queen. Over the course of a summer she develops boobs and grows taller so that when she goes back to school in September, she bags herself a boyfriend. She discovers he belongs to this all-male secret society and decides she wants in. Trouble is, she’s a girl and Mr Boyfriend and his pals keep treating her like a dopey little girlie, so to prove herself, she decides to play a whole bunch of pretty amusing pranks on the school administration.Despite the simplicity, I actually found the plot okay. It reminded me of Con Academy (although this book was written earlier) and some of the pranks were pretty ingenious.The pacing is a little bit wonky - there’s pages and pages of internal monologue, followed by about two pages (or so it seemed) of events and pranks spanning the period between thanksgiving and Christmas (about four weeks?) It was never off-putting, but seemed a little rushed at the time.Frankie herself is a pretty awesome character. Yes, she’s a little bit Mary-Sue-ish (pretty, nice figure, intelligent, sporty) but she’s well-adjusted so she doesn’t come across as too annoying. I thought the author did a decent job of portraying a girl who has definite feminist beliefs and also has a massive girly crush on her boyfriend. Her internal dialogue (and there’s lots) was interesting and I was pleased about the resolution to her relationships both with Matthew and with Alpha. Frankie’s relationship with her sister Zada was also interesting. Zada has some firmly entrenched feminist ideals and doesn’t hesitate to lecture Frankie on what she ought to be doing, seeing Frankie as someone who can’t think for herself and in this respect she’s not all that different to Frankie’s boyfriend. It was interesting to see Frankie navigate feminist beliefs for herself and work out what they mean to her.All in all, this was a pretty good book. Recommended.
41987696	Christmas present from Meg! Good job Meg!So obviously the 5-star jaw-drop quality this one has for me was its ability to gel extremely well-thought arguments of gender expectations into an adorable story. There's usually so much footing around when fiction goes after social imbalances, like here with male privilege and regular privilege. Or like, they pick ONE RANT and do that one, as if it's easier to understand when it's simplified. I think it's actually so much easier to understand when it's a whole book full of relevant experiences, though, because there's just no shooting it down. Indeed, it's on everything, on every page here because it's on all of her life. And it's so sad and great to see Frankie's anger be sort of reckless.Sometimes it was a little bit 4.5 because I was like, oh right she still likes him? I forgot. Is it ok I think he's a douche or am I supposed to get over it because their relationship is revealing so many things? (Actually all the relationships revealed things. Well done, relationships.)I loved a lot about the writing. The narration did good stuff. I like a really light telling-the-future tone with that kind of thing like there is here. And I like the things that aren't hammered out in words, like how Alpha really knew her better than others. It's clear it would repay a reread someday.ETA: Oh yeah I've been meaning to say: PANOPTICON. The panopticon theme is so perfect and probably the second most meaningful thread of the book. It is super, and I love how it integrates unspokenly with the gender ideas as well. (Why people follow rules that don't exist.) This is an ideas book as well as a hijinks book. Anyway Meg said "panopticon" in conversation the other day (right?) so I was thinking.
957495076	I bought this book when I was at YallFest back in 2015. I waited on line, and got it signed by E. Lockhart, and then, I never read it. I am sort of kicking myself for sitting on it for long, because I enjoyed every second of this book. Frankie was a great character. I loved her sense of humor, but also really appreciated being in her head, because there was A LOT going on up there. I found myself getting lost in her thoughts, and found that her thoughts provoked my thoughts. This was a really entertaining and interesting story of a young woman's self discovery. BLOG | INSTAGRAM |TWITTER | BLOGLOVIN | FRIEND ME ON GOODREADS
1711850462	I read this shortly after Lockhart's We Were Liars so it's hard not to compare them--in part because they seem to have much in common on the surface and yet deliver such very different experiences. Both books feature a protagonist who comes from wealth and privilege and who struggle (both consciously and unconsciously) with how they feel about it. Both books draw you in with a mystery and ultimately deliver on it without providing a simple happy ending but rather a revelation about character and identity.I found myself enjoying We Were Liars somewhat more than The Disreputable History of Frankie-Landau-Banks both as I read them and after I put the books down. I think this is purely a matter of taste. The kind of mystery that We Were Liars deals was simply more up my alley and I liked the ambitiousness of the things it kept hidden from me as a reader.
117774336	Read this if you like:Boarding School/Private School StoriesSecret SocietyGirl point of viewGilmore Girls (this book reminded me of Rory and Logan in the Yale years)Bassett HoundsA fair amount of sneaking aroundGirl power- feminism type booksRich KidsSeriously, this was a good book. My only complaint is it felt like not enough happened in so many pages... and then the ending is not so wonderful.I would say pick this one up, if you don't like it about 50 pages in stop reading.
1242818435	Sinister as fuck and scarily good. Full review here: https://youtu.be/GLPbfrAy_So
957794351	4.5 stars
95516145	I read this book in manuscript form about two years ago. It was great. I just re-read the finished novel...it was brilliant. One of my favorite teen books. EVER.
7078822999	gostei mas foi mt raso.... mas tem potencial!!! acho que pode abrir muitas discussoes, deve ser legal ler em grupo
5478322207	Kom aldrig in i den. Var aldrig tillräckligt intressant. Svag tvåa…
7190423138	What a fabulous book recommended by my school's librarians. I fun and clever delve into secret societies of wealthy independent schools. The main character is a sharp and witty feminist determined to gain access to a male-dominated secret society at her high school. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and will recommend it to my son.
2323925428	Summary from Goodreads: Frankie Landau-Banks at age 14: Debate Club. Her father's "bunny rabbit." A mildly geeky girl attending a highly competitive boarding school.Frankie Landau-Banks at age 15: A knockout figure. A sharp tongue. A chip on her shoulder. And a gorgeous new senior boyfriend: the supremely goofy, word-obsessed Matthew Livingston.Frankie Landau-Banks. No longer the kind of girl to take "no" for an answer. Especially when "no" means she's excluded from her boyfriend's all-male secret society. Not when her ex-boyfriend shows up in the strangest of places. Not when she knows she's smarter than any of them. When she knows Matthew's lying to her. And when there are so many, many pranks to be done.Frankie Landau-Banks, at age 16: Possibly a criminal mastermind.This is the story of how she got that way.My Review:Here we have the March selection of my 2018 Challenge to read a book a month from the last 12 years of my TBR lists. It falls into the Young Adult genre, I had it on my shelves, and it was great fun. I have provided you with the Goodreads summary because it conveys the plot better than I could. What I liked:It is a boarding school novel. I never went to boarding school and am fairly sure that was a good thing, but I love reading books set in them.Frankie Landau-Banks is a wondrous character. She blooms like a swan in her sophomore year from awkward nerd into a secret nerd with a goddess body. Once she snags a boyfriend she practices the age old advice not to let him know how smart she is but soon realizes doing so has made her invisible.How she rises above that advice, uses her several super powers, and comes out on top is a story that would give a female of any age good dreams and a warm, happy heart.I think I need to read more E Lockhart.
216180168	Often times when I read book reviews, people complain about the main female characters. And they have reasons, reasons that can be cited from examples in the text. The characters are whiny, needy, immature, childish, bratty, dumb, too stupid to live, too dependent on their boyfriends (who exhibit stalker-ish tendencies) or just plain boring to read about. I’m not bashing these reviews – these are real problems in YA lit today, that need to be solved, we need strong female role models.But comparing and contrasting these books with whiny characters to a story like The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks shows how amazing strong female characters can be when done well.Frankie has always been considered the “bunny rabbit” of her family: sweet and kind and someone to pass over. She attends her freshman year of school at Alabaster (a pristine boarding school her father attended), blending in like the bunny rabbit she is expected to be. But once she reaches sophomore year, everything changes as Frankie starts to feel more sure and confident of herself. She gets herself a boyfriend, the charming Matthew Livingston, and as their relationship becomes more serious she realizes he’s lying to her. As she investigates what he’s doing, Frankie discovers that Matthew is part of an all-boys club called the Bassets, which her father also participated in. She decides to help the Bassets anymously, by being sneaky – and getting plenty of pranks done.At the beginning the plot alienated me a bit. The first chapters are more a retelling then scenes that you’re straight in, showing Frankie’s “bunny girl” tendencies. This slogged for me, though I see the reasons that they were put in the novel. For about the first five chapters I thought I might put down the book. But I continued on, a fact that I’m glad I did. The book picks up speed and takes you away from the retellings and into more of the in-your-face plot. The other concern I had with the plot originally was that it seemed to be based around tropes, really, and only tropes, coming from the blurb and reviews that I’d read. A boys’ boarding school that a girl wants to take down? I’ve seen that plenty of times before, from movies to TV to books. But Lockhart cleverly subverts those tropes into a fascinating story that explores gender roles and feminism. The plot is far from predictable, cleverly twisting and turning. And that ending? Oh my god, yes.Now, the characters. Frankie Frankie Frankie Frankie, I love you. She so clearly develops and changes throughout the book, from the innocent “bunny rabbit” to the strong, confident girl. And remember those complaints people had that I cited at the beginning of the review? She pushes all those away. Frankie’s a strong, smart, confident girl who has ambition and goals, as well as insecurities. We need strong female characters in YA, and I think I’ll point to her as one from now on. I know some people found Frankie to be irritating, but I found her to be interesting and a strong, smart girl. Now, to the boys. I thought that the book would end up with Frankie maybe having to choose between Alpha/Matthew/Porter, but the ending is a knockout. And it’s in no way a “choose the right boy” scene. Now, I much preferred Alpha and Porter to Matthew. Matthew is an ignorant jerk, and yes, that may have spoiled the book in some way, but he’s an ignorant jerk. However, he’s well developed and strong, as are all the boys. Really everyone in the novel is developed, even the most minor of characters. I think that this book holds up strong because of its characters and explorations of themes (feminism, etc). All the characters are strong and developed and interesting even when I hate them (cough cough Matthew).The writing is very crystal clear and strong. The book is written in more of a unique way: it’s an account of Frankie’s first two years in high school. I can only think of one other book written like this -- Octavian Nothing . Lockart’s writing is easy to read and interesting. I loved her exploration of themes like feminism and sexuality woven throughout the text; it really made the book more thought-provoking. She didn’t blatantly explain the themes, simply wove them through and made you think.Overall, The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau Banks may just be one of my new favorite YA books. I loved everything about it, really, and next time someone needs a strong girl read I’ll be sure to mention Frankie and her silly, crazy pranks.Five stars.
2327737813	Actual rating: 3 1/2 starsAfter blowing through this in one night, oh boy do I have a lot of thoughts.So I'll start off by saying that The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks is not normally the kind of book that I tend to gravitate towards. I like my books to be fast-paced, emotional, and somewhat easy to read. Reading is an escape for me, and unless I'm really in the mood for it, I don't like to do a lot of heavy thinking. That being said, I was pleasantly surprised by this book and all of its philosophical thinking and grammar-centric humor and atypical narration. As a character, Frankie is not exactly likable and she's not exactly a great person, but that's ok. That's kind of the point of this book. Female characters don't always have to be great people! For the most part, I really enjoyed being inside her head and actually ended up relating to her on a lot of levels, especially as a woman myself. Some of the situations that she found herself in with Matthew and the gang were so annoyingly familiar. There were times reading this book when I was literally gritting my teeth watching the boys continue to dismiss Frankie and write her off, even as it was clear that she was better, smarter, and funnier than the whole lot of them. But because she was a girl...specifically the girlfriend of one of them...none of that even mattered. All in all, a solid, unique MC and a solid plot. Was it perfect, though? Hell nah.The biggest issue for me was certain aspects of Frankie's feminism (though I'm not sure she would even consider herself one, as she definitely dismissed Zada's multiple times). I kept going back and forth with her...sometimes the things she would say or think would be so spot on and I would be mentally fist bumping with her, and then sometimes I was like....oh, girl. Girl, no. In particular, her treatment of the other girls in this book. Like her whole drive in this book was to prove herself better than the boys, but that kind of meant at the expense of the other girls too? She constantly looked down her nose at Elizabeth and Star and even Trish at times, and it absolutely rubbed me the wrong way. I know this kind of feminism...I know girls like Frankie. Her feminism is the kind of feminism that is all about girl power and barging into traditionally masculine spaces and breaking down barriers, without recognizing the power in being feminine and celebrating traditionally feminine things as well. And while it's not wrong, exactly, feminism is about celebrating ALL types of women. Which Frankie 100% did not do. My second issue kind of goes hand in hand, but it felt like this ambition that Frankie had to prove herself to the boys was just that...proving herself to the boys. I kept waiting for Frankie to realize that the boys weren't shit and that it didn't matter at fucking all what they thought, but literally almost up until the very last page, it felt like she was still begging for their approval and validation. It drove me crazy. I just wanted to grab her by the shoulders and yell, THEY SUCK, FRANKIE. THEY REALLY SUCK. YOU DON'T NEED THEM TO LIKE YOU. But alas.Lastly, the pacing. This one's only a minor complaint, but I kept reading waiting for the part where Frankie finally starts impersonating Alpha, and then she finally did, and I looked and the book was more than halfway over. WHAT. I was so bummed. I wanted more of Frankie coming into her own and less of Frankie turning into mush at Matthew's feet and rolling her eyes at the girls around her. But, again, not a huge complaint because even that was still enjoyable to read. All in all, I really enjoyed this book. It got me thinking, and rolling my eyes, and thumping my fist in the air, and shaking my head. It was relatable and relevant, and while not entirely without flaws, it is definitely an important read. Definitely would recommend!
2463183419	I'm back and forth on this one. On one hand, I felt like I was reading an important commentary on how the average teenage girl demeans herself to please boys. On the other hand, I felt like I was reading about a teenage girl that was starving for acceptance from a bunch of haughty rich boys, each without an independent thought of their own. I guess this book is a bit of both.Let's start with the positives: I really appreciated the nod to the idea that all girls are expected to be cute and seen as pretty accessories to their boyfriends. I was never a "cute" girl and I still can't force myself to be the sweet, opinion-free girl that society tries to make us think are attractive. When I was a teen, I remember wishing that I was more likable and sweet like the other girls that boys seemed to like. So for that alone, I get Frankie. I get it. She's a bright girl with wheels constantly turning in her head. She wants to be adored and accepted for who she is. She's really relatable to the average teenage girl. She's finding out more about herself when she notices the things that upset her and tries to understand why exactly they upset her. All of these are good, interesting things about this character.Also, there are some interesting parallels made between the sexes. For example, I loved it when Frankie asks why it's brilliant when Alpha does something but it's psychotic when she does it. This is something that is true throughout life: guy can be class clown, girl is just annoying; guy can be an assertive leader, girl is just bossy; the list goes on. Also, can you imagine a group of girl pranksters in a prep school? No. Because it's just assumed that it's a bunch of boy pranksters. Why? I have no clue. But I understand the frustration Frankie feels. I think every girl can feel it. Now for the negatives: Ohhhh the backbone that this girl does not possess. Yes, Frankie's the mastermind and she's cleverly plotting all of these pranks, but throughout the entire book, she's only doing it in the hopes of impressing her boyfriend. Whaaaaaat. Even as she's realizing that she wants to be loved for who she is and not just who Matthew wants her to be, Frankie continues to just sit around and hope that he'll tell her his secrets. WHY? This guy is so dismissive of her and doesn't seem to even want to know who she is and she's just completely enamored with him. It's infuriating. Actually, Frankie's realization of her character are completely out of sync with her actions and I think that's why I wrestle with whether or not I like this book. It could have been such a bold women empowerment book and yet it just falls flat because she's still hoping for Matthew's approval even at the end. Blech. Hopefully other teenage girls will read this and become inspired by their anger at Frankie's lack of self worth. I just... hmm... I don't know. Good things, bad things, I just... 3 stars. I'm sticking with 3 stars.
1127207002	"This chronicle is an attempt to mark out the contributing elements in Frankie Landau-Banks’s character. What led her to do what she did: things she would later view with a curious mixture of hubris and regret."The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks is an intelligent, witty story of a contemporary teenage girl's determined rebellion against the expectations of those that surround her. ""She will not be simple and sweet. She will not be what people tell her she should be. That Bunny Rabbit is dead.”This novel has a definite message. Alabaster Prep School is a microcosm of wider society, and within it, Lockhart explores some major issues including social order, the hierarchy of power and gender inequality. Frankie is determined to challenge the status quo by surreptitiously taking charge of The Loyal Order of the Basset Hound - the all male secret society on campus, and giving the pranks she devises a politically motivated agenda. Frankie's motives aren't entirely pure though, and inevitably neither do things go exactly to plan.I liked Frankie, she's smart and feisty though she also has her flaws, but it's the contradictions in her actions and her thought processes that makes her so interesting, and I think is probably the point of the whole novel. Frankie may be slightly more self aware than many teen girls but she hasn't yet got everything figured out. Like most girls, Frankie struggles with her desire to be true to herself and her wish to fit in. This is particularly an issue in her relationship with the handsome, wealthy and charming Senior, Matthew Livingston. Frankie is delighted by his attention, proud to be chosen by him, even when she realises that he isn't really interested in what she wants or thinks. "It is better to be alone, she figures, than to be with someone who can't see who you are. It is better to lead than to follow. It is better to speak up than stay silent. It is better to open doors than to shut them on people."Despite the serious themes, the overall tone of the novel is lighthearted. The narrative is often witty and the story is well paced. I enjoyed The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks, it's a thought provoking novel that, from my perspective, explores some interesting contradictions. I've passed it on to my teen daughter and I'm eager to see what she thinks.
735533717	Frankie's sophomore year at the prestigious Alabaster School starts off with a bang when she attracts Matthew Livingston, one of the most popular senior boys on campus. The fairy tale veneer is tarnished as she realizes that Matthew is ditching her a little too often to hang out in a secret, all-male society: a society for which she herself should be a "legacy," since her father was a member back in his own prep school days. Not one to take this sort of thing passively, Frankie decides to turn the tables on the secrecy -- with hilarious, yet poignant, results. I loved this book! It was refreshing in all ways. The story is told from a bit of a distance, by an all-knowing, clearly older narrator who makes the occasional editorial comment, which was a fun, light style that I rarely see in modern YA lit. Frankie was a very realistic 15-year-old, with a mix of confidence and cluelessness, and a truly admirable talent for strategizing. The romance is a send-up of sorts on the typical teen book: rather than end with the couple finally getting together, this one starts with that, then allows Frankie to wonder what the basis for the relationship really is -- Does Matthew like her only for her looks and "knock-out" figure? Does he like her only as long as she seems "less" than he is? Does she even really like him, or just his good looks and popularity (and kissing ability)? These are questions I don't see brought up nearly enough in the YA books I've been reading over the past several years. My only objection to the story is that an adult presence is sorely lacking, although the author explains it away with the "panopticon" effect -- since the students believe they're being watched, they don't actually need to be watched.I don't want to say any more about the story for fear of spoilers! So let me just leave off by saying I recommend this book highly -- it was a great read, well-written, with a perfect mix of fun and seriousness, and excellent, not-too-preachy points about how women and girls are still viewed despite the gains we've made over the last 40 years. I loved every moment of it.
29146447	From a bare-bones plot summary—a young sophomore infiltrates a secret society at her elite private school, blah blah—this book could easily be mistaken for generic YA fiction. This is unfortunate, because what Lockhart has actually written is a wonderful, vivid, funny, feminist antidote to miserable tripe like Twilight. This book is about Frankie, newly pretty after a summer’s growth spurt, returning to school to find that the popular boys are suddenly interested in her—and that none of them even remember the geeky ghost she was the year before. Frankie hooks up with Golden Boy Matthew—who Lockhart does a great job making realistically appealing as well as realistically flawed—but soon realizes that she could all-too-easily let herself be consumed by the force of her boyfriend’s personality and his powerful friends. Frankie refuses to be controlled, refuses to just be someone’s arm candy, and I absolutely adore her for it. She’s smart and knows it, but now that she’s becoming aware that she can be pretty and sexually confident, too, she’s not willing to sacrifice her smarts and just be either of those things, or slot herself neatly into the roles her school allots for women. She’s like the anti-Bella. I’d love to read about her snubbing vampires and fighting crime. She absolutely rocks.Anyone who thought Twilight offered a good role model or an important narrative for women needs to read this book. Or else be smacked over the head with it.
1834901842	From what I've heard, The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks was supposed to be a book about feminism and girl empowerment. However, this book anything BUT that.The main character, Frankie, is a self-proclaimed "feminist", but in reality she's just a whiny, clingy, self-absorbed, immature brat and it makes me really sad that this is how a "feminist" is portrayed. She's obsessed with her boyfriend and can't stand the fact that he isn't around her 24/7, so whenever he goes out with his friends, she turns into this crazy stalker and follows them everywhere. As if being a brainless, needy girl weren't bad enough, our "heroine" also thinks that she's better than all the other females, so instead of going out with her friends, she stops living her own life because she wants to prove to the guys that she's this smart, independent and confident person. Ironic, huh? *sighs*Anyway, let me summarize my thoughts on this book for you: the story is lame, the main character is a psycho and... yeah, that's pretty much it. I couldn't be more disappointed.
