4296132283	This was seriously so good. So fucking good.I am convinced that Lee Mandelo purposely made up words in this book because let tell you, the amount of times I had to look up and use the dictionary....let's just say that Merriam Webster and I became well acquainted after this. Also not me thinking this was YA at first when I started it....it IS VERY ADULT:) But this fucking book!!!!! I know that I am now infuckingLOVE with slow burn books; equivalent to a rollercoaster about to crest that first giant drop to rushing anticipation and that yummy gummy feeling you get when it does. Burn me please, I AM IN LOOOVVVVEEE. I don't think I've ever read anything quite as grieving with a side of serotonin as this book, also served with a side of ✨depression✨. This one had really great themes exploring generational wealth, masculinity, internalized homophobia, identity, ghosts, familial curses, true friendships, and kinship. L O V E D I T.I'm giving this a 4.5 (rounding a to a five) BUT I just know that ending could have benefited to even just ONE EXTRA PAGE. (The ending to me felt so rush compared to the rest of the book like I was thisfuckingclose to being satisfied!!) Writing: EXQUISITEStory: BRILLIANTCharacters: FUCJKED UP AND AMAZINGBut The Boys? LOVELOVELOVELOVELOVELOVE This book also has the strongest resemblance to The Raven Boys (but if Noah was the main character) which was so reminiscent and beautiful; this whole book was damn quotable honestly. My new favorite. Excuse me as I make this book my brand and force everyone to read it. 5 HOT SEXY STARS!!!Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
3422826469	2025 update: at long last, I have a full review of this book discussing my many messy thoughts on my BookTube channel, ProblemsOfABookNerd, which you can watch right hereThis sounds like a queer fever dream the likes of which Ronan Lynch could only dream (lol) about reading and I’m VERY into it
4168102919	definitely going to be in the minority with my feelings on this one, but i didnt click with the story.and its due to a combination of finding the writing to be dense and repetitive, not caring about the multiple wannabe fast and furious street races, and not liking the characters. the characters being the main culprit. i personally have a really difficult time reading about self-destructive people, especially when they remain stagnant in their destructiveness and dont go through any sort of development (a little revelation at the end doesnt count). obviously andrew is grieving and going through it, very lost to the world, but i struggled to empathise with him, his situation, and those he chose to surround himself with. i will say the concept of a re-coming of age story is really interesting and something i dont think ive read before. the characters are graduate students, already past the moment they come into adulthood, but the circumstances for many of them prompt them to experience those feelings again. i just wish there has been more character development to really drive home this point. overall, not the worst book ive read, but just not something i could personally connect with. ↠ 2.5 stars
4619247812	*screams into pillow*
4093926283	*2.5* it was fine, i think it got hyped to me personally as being a ronan lynchesque book which i didn’t really get. feels like it was more written for the aesthetics then having a unique or interesting plot
3656377517	The f*cked-upness of All for the game (remember Andrew Minyard!!) meets the darkness of These Violent Delights (Micah Nemerever). Add horror elements, and Summer Sons is born.I don’t particularly like horror or gothic stories, but I have a soft spot for sad and dark ones, especially when the characters are self-destructive and twisted. I bought Summer Sons as a comfort read after I found out that the release date of my most anticipated book this year had been pushed back a week. And one of my GR friends said: “comfort read???” They were right, Summer Sons is discomforting and messy and chilling and depressing. And it’s also beautifully written and tense and raw and so incredibly addictive!From the very first page, Andrew’s grief seeped through the book. I could feel the heat, the dampness, heard the cicadas shrieking, and Andrew’s sadness penetrated deep into my bones. The pacing is on the slower side, yet the story almost felt feverish because of the uneasiness, the descriptive writing, and an increasingly palpable (sexual) tension.I believe this book is not for everyone. Unlikable characters? Check. Drug use almost every day? Check. Car racing when high and drunk? Check, check, and double-check. Furthermore, Lee Mandelo used quite a few words I’m not used to. This could stop readers from reading the story while it only made the book more appealing to me. Besides, so many topics were covered between the lines: from toxic masculinity to white supremacy to finding your identity. Lee Mandelo has blown me away with their intense and powerful story, and I can’t wait to read their next novel!Follow me on Instagram
4305489411	first of all, whoever said this book is dark academia.. you’re a liar anyways. i felt like this book had a lot less gothic vibes than i expected? also i feel like the street racing and drugs felt very random for this book. it felt more like a coming of age book with horror elements instead of just a horror book, you know? also this book was very repetitive and if you know me, you know i hateee repetition.
3948618578	Fantasy. Horror. Action. Coming of age. Mystery. How can a book literally be such a genre-bending whirlwind of a story?! First and foremost, this book is not for everybody and I don't think the author was meaning to write a story for everybody. The story focuses on two friends—Andrew and Eddie. Best friends for years with an inexplicable bond, until Eddie moved away to start his graduate program. Andrew eventually decides to uproot his life and go join him, but before that could happen, Eddie commits suicide. In his apparent death, Eddie leaves Andrew his inheritance, a house, and a mystery surrounding what happened. As Andrew tries to uncover the truth, he begins to form suspicions around Eddie's circle of friends and their unique behaviors. Andrew dives into a world of betrayal, fast cars, sex, and hard drugs—a world Andrew wasn't prepared for. Has Andrew really accepted what it means for Eddie to be dead?This story is full of unlikable characters and dark slow burn suspense. Again, this haunting book may not be for everybody. The story dives deep into the emotions of grief and loss, the feelings of denial, and the pain of losing someone you weren't ready to let go of just yet. The story is queer at its core, but it is mainly a secondary plot point to the themes I mentioned previously. If you're unsure about the horror elements of this novel, don't be deterred as it's not gruesomely scary, but more of a gothic suspense. I can't wait to see what comes out of Lee Mandelo's future stories.
3479003943	i don't know how a book could be simultaneously haunting and comforting, but WHEW this is it. it's spooky and warm and specific to the upper south in ways that plucked every single one of my heartstrings. it's pitched as The Fast and The Furious but make it southern gothic, and that's the lord's own truth. get it, yall.
4115496700	| | blog | tumblr | letterboxd | |3 ½ stars (rounded up because it's all about the vibes) Summer Sons is very much a vibes-driven novel that would not exist without Maggie Stiefvater's The Dream Thieves. From the aesthetics permeating the story to the combative & codependent character dynamics, Summer Sons share a lot of similarities with that book. Lee Mandelo’s older cast of characters however allow for them to employ an edgier tone, one that at times reminded me a bit of Leigh Bardugo'sNinth House (both mcs have spend most of their respective narratives chasing paranormal shit, to the detriment of their academic, getting repeatedly emotionally and physically bruised and pissing off ppl left and right). The first time I approach Summer Sons I ended up dnfing it. While I do agree with some of my initial criticisms I think this second time around I was able to just ignore the few bumps along the way and just let Summer Sons take me for a ride. Written in snappy prose Summer Sons follows Andrew, who is in his early twenties and is about to begin a graduate program at Vanderbilt where he will be joining his best friend and (adopted) brother Eddie. Their bond is very much of the codependent variety, as the two were irrevocably bound together by a traumatizing childhood experience that has left them with, in the case of Andrew, some unwanted abilities. But then, just before their long-awaited reunion, Eddie commits suicide leaving behind a grief-stricken and confused Andrew. Eddie left everything to him, including a ridiculous amount of money and a house in Nashville (roommate included). Andrew moves there, but he couldn’t really care less about his studies. He is determined to find out what happened to Eddie. He is immediately suspicious of and antagonistic towards Eddie’s former roommate, Riley, and his cousin, Sam. Andrew is jealous of the time they spent with Eddie and is reluctant to reveal anything about his past or his intentions to them. The first half of the novel has very little if no plot going on. I mean, things are happening but they mostly consist of Andrew feeling unwell, hitting someone, getting hit, getting drunk, getting high, ignoring his uni inbox, and making wild speculations about what happened to Eddie. He does have a few meetings with his advisor and tutor, but for the majority of the first half of the novel it’s more about the very charged dynamics between Andrew and Sam, and to a lesser extent, Andrew and Riley. There is a party or two, some drag races, and buckets of toxic masculinity. The chemistry between the various characters more than makes up for the lack of, shall we say, plot. The author also explores Andrew’s very intense relationship with Eddy, capturing the duo’s power dynamics.I appreciated how thorny Andrew is. He is so careless about his own well-being that he engages in some pretty self-destructive behaviours. He is also repressed af, and struggles to reconcile himself with the possibility that his love for Eddy may have not been strictly platonic. And of course, his attraction to Sam complicates matters. And yeah, there was something about them that definitely reminded me of Ronan & Kavinsky, except not quite as messed up, as here both Andrew and Sam embody what I can best describe as an exceedingly Ronan-esque chaotic energy. I liked the realistic way Andrew responds to the queerness of this group of friends, and that it takes him time to truly allow himself the possibility of being attracted to men.To exacerbate his alienation are recurring nightmarish visions of death and rot. Eddie’s phantom is stalking him, resulting in periods of dangerous dissociation. Riley and Sam claim they want to help but Andrew. being the hard-ass he is, is not so sure about letting anyone in. The latter half of the novel has more to do with his amateurish sleuthing, as Andrew is forced to confront the likely possibility that what occurred to him and Eddie as children has something to do with Eddie’s death.We have old family curses and blood rituals, eerie visions, and disturbing occurrences. Additionally, Mandelo dedicates time to critiquing how insular colleges are as well as the elitism and racism that pervade the academic world.I liked the uneasy relationships the characters have with one another, and that Mandelo holds their main characters accountable for their past and present actions without writing them off as ‘bad’. There were a few things that I wish could have developed differently. The paranormal element had potential but was implemented in an inconsistent and in some places sparse way that ultimately does it a disservice. I liked how it remains largely ambiguous but it could have been amped up in quite a few instances. Also, in the scenes where this paranormal element comes to the fore the descriptions could have been more vivid. It would have been nice to learn more about haunts/revenants or other spooky occurrences that Andrew & Eddie may have experienced after ‘it’ happened. Similarly, it would also have been nice to have more of a background about their childhood and teenage years (their relationship with Andrew’s parents, their high school days, etc..). We know about their tattoo and their ‘shared’ gf (who thankfully speaks up about being used and tossed aside like a toy) but very little about anything else. In some ways it makes sense since they were each other’s worlds, so everything else would barely register, however the complete lack of presence of Andrew's parents was felt.The resolution to Eddie’s death was too derivative, especially within the urban fantasy genre. She who shall not be named did that a few times in her series. Maggie Stiefvater subverts this trope by making readers, but not our main characters, aware of who the ‘antagonists’ are. Barudgo also does it in Ninth House, but in a far more twisty way than Mandelo. Here instead that finale seemed vaguely formulaic and entirely too predictable. That the ‘villains’ lacked a certain ‘oomph’ factor also made that last action rather lacklustre. I do think that at the end Andrew gets a bit too much of the blame for how things went down with the villain. The boy is an asshole sure. But he was just trying to find out the truth and how could he have possibly predicted that things would go down that way?! The writing had a certain fanfiction-y quality but I found myself really enjoying it (so we have a lot of growling, flashing teeth, dangerous expressions, an overuse of ‘the boy’ instead of the characters’ names). The prose was snappy and intentionally edgy which makes for highly engrossing storytelling. I do wish that the author had reigned in on the more anatomical descriptions of his characters. There are whole paragraphs dedicated to describing whose leg is on whose ankle or how someone’s hand is dangling or touching somebody else's body part). Yeah, in a way these add a certain sensual element that makes these scenes really pop, but there were moments where they ended up sidelining the actual storyline or drawing attention from the dialogue. There were also way too many random highfalutin words dropped in for no reason (such as 'cadre') and they had the same energy as me during my first year as an undergraduate student using archaic terms for no reason other than to make what I was writing sound clever (but i just ended up with some seriously jarring phrases). Despite these criticisms, I did like Summer Sons. Andrew is a tortured and somewhat impenetrable character that is equal parts frustrating and lovable. Mandelo articulates Andrew’s inner conflict without resorting to cliches or moralisms. The interactions between the characters seamlessly alternate from being funny and entertaining banter to more heated and tense confrontations. The friendships and the romance we see develop between Andrew and others really make the book. I loved how the author is able to dedicate a lot of page time to Andrew’s unresolved and complicated relationship with his sexuality but also present us with some very casual lgbtq+ rep (we have a trans character, a positive portrayal of polyamory, and a character who uses they/them pronouns makes has a cameo appearance). The pining and sexual tension between Andrew and Sam were *chief’s kiss*. I’d love to read more by this author (maybe something with wlw characters…? or just more girls in general cause i don’t think this book would pass the bechdel test test..at least in trc we have the women of 300 fox way).If you like spooky summer ya novels, like Beware the Wild, The Wicker King, Wonders of the Invisible World, or the gritty aesthetics of urban fantasy series like Holly Black's The Modern Faerie Tales, Summer Sons should definitely make it onto your tbr pile. I look forward to whatever Mandelo publishes next and I can definitely see myself re-reading Summer Sons.ps: i did think it would have been nice for mandelo to mention in their acknowledgements stiefvater as her series clearly inspired this book.
4287325341	If nothing else, Lee Mandelo deserves credit for inventing a new genre: Gay Fratboy Horror.Nonetheless, if the result is more books like "Summer Sons," well . . . maybe Lee Mandelo's brainchild should go the way of the Tiddy Bear Comfort Strap, the Potty Putter, and other ill-considered hybrids. But if Gay Fratboy Horror becomes a movement or even a trend, here's a few tips for future practitioners;- Don't make your narrator a whiny, self-pitying jerk, e.g. Andrew The Closet Case, who's so obnoxious, entitled and dull that you wonder why ghosts would want to spend time with him, let alone the living characters in the book. - Don't have your characters fall blindly into traps that a five-year-old child could avoid, e.g. "why don't I make you a drink and then we can discuss why I murdered your best friend."- Don't have your characters enroll in generic graduate programs, e.g. "American Studies" at Vanderbilt, which doesn't even offer a masters in the field, only a certificate.- Don't dump an analogy into every other sentence in a labored and obvious attempt to make your prose sound "literary." e.g. "she was as earnest as a well-bred greyhound." It took me awhile to realize that comparison is supposed to imply the character is hunting for something, but the "earnest" just bungles it. - Don't assume your readers will indulge your obsessions, e.g. sports cars. Maybe some people will thrill to epic descriptions of inebriated millennials driving their Supras or Mustangs or whatever at triple-digit speeds; maybe some people will think "these drunk a$$holes are endangering themselves, other drivers, and the entire planet."- Don't make your supernatural phenomenon specific to one or two people, e.g. a family curse that menaces someone who's already dead. Horror is only horrifying if the reader can feel some form of vicarious threat, either from the sheer magnitude of the danger, e.g. a horde of giant flesh-eating weasels, or by empathizing with a sympathetic protagonist, e.g. timid sexually repressed Eleanor Vance accepting an invitation to mysterious, ominous Hill House. But Andrew The Closet Case uncovering the centuries-old hex on Eddie The Dead Douchebag? Both are the kind of people I've been actively avoiding since I was 22, I guess I should be thanking Lee Mandelo for vindicating that choice.So there you go, there's how you can keep the nascent phenomena of Gay Fratboy Horror from becoming too malignant. And if you don't follow my advice? Well . . hope you aren't expecting to see me at any of the conventions.
4013603229	Yes. Just yes.
3307743785	You know that iconic meme of Lady Gaga where she goes "Talented. Brilliant. Incredible. Amazing. Showstopping. Spectacular. Never the same. Totally unique."? that is me with Summer Sons by Lee Mandelo.My favorite blogger Emma @ Emma Reads Too Much writes in her review of The Secret History: "Here is the problem with reviewing every book I read: Sometimes I throw around terms before I really need them, and then once I read THE book, The Story that requires and deserves that descriptor, I have nothing to give it.Right now I have this problem. Because I have used the word “immersive” before, and immediately upon my completion of this book it became clear that I should have saved it for right now." This is the exact feeling I have about Summer Sons. 'Brilliant', 'Incredible', 'Amazing', 'Showstopping', 'Spectacular' - these are all perfect identifiers I have used to describe the books I've read in the past, but I feel are now more deserving of this book. Summer freaking Sons.I still don't have the adequate words to talk about this book. I can break it down to its barest elements: this book is about the intimacy of male friendships and queerness and realizing that you're queer as an adult and horror and academia and the grief of losing your loved ones and the manifestation of that grief in the form of a haunting etc., etc., etc.,BUT, I will still not be able to convey how Lee Mandelo wraps them all together with the most visceral writing featuring elements of deep yearning, self-loathing, homoerotic antagonism, toxic masculinity, haunting descriptions, and tense moments. Our protagonist Andrew indulges in all kinds of self-destructive behavior in his journey to processing his best friend's death. Add to this, Andrew's glacially slow realization that might've loved Eddie in a more-than-platonic way. Eddie may have died, but he is very much present in every aspect of Andrew's life - from occupying every second of his thoughts to appearing as a literal phantom. Andrew is filled with this raw hunger and sadness that made me flinch at times while reading this book.And on top of all of this, Mandelo adds another layer to this emotional onion by hinting that Eddie's death is not all what it seems in the beginning and there might be foul play involved. Eddie had some sketchy acquaintances in the last few months of his life, and it doesn't help that he was researching gothic lore related to his own life and ancestry that Andrew and Eddie promised never to delve into.I honestly have so much more to praise about this book and the way Mandelo has fleshed out each character in this book - especially Andrew's and Sam's and their character chemistry - but I lack the braincells to put them in words. Is sensual tension a thing? thats what this book is! this book is 400 pages of sensual tension! and that's all you need to know before getting into the book! JUST! READ! THIS! BOOK! Summer Sons by Lee Mandelo is one of the best books I have read in my life, and it deserves to be appreciated by everyone in the world. 6/5 stars!Summer Sons comes out on September 28, preorder it!!!I won an ARC of the book from a giveaway conducted by the author on twitter.————————————————————————————UPDATE: the review might be coming sooner than usual, folks. 👀 your reminder to preorder this book! ————————————————————————————6/5 stars BEST BOOK EVER, EVERYONE READ IT!will I write a review for this before the release date?stay tuned to find out.
5144767303	I can't stop thinking about this book. It's become my own revenant, my own haunt, creeping up and grabbing hold and refusing to let go.If you're a fan of The Dream Thieves by Maggie Stiefvater and you want something similar but darker and hungrier, give Summer Sons a try. I can't even put everything I feel for this book into words, but it's become one of my favorite reads and it deserves so much more love!
4273764316	There are books that just feel like a feverdream, and the first half of this one definitely felt like that for me. Probably has to do something with the writing style. At 75% when they introduced that particular character I immediately knew where this was going, and I was absolutely right. The characters were so stupid. They are in some fancy college, but for this plot twist they didn't have to have a degree. It didn't require a lot of braincells.So the eyerolls were heavy on my part.But it gets a star for the characters, because everyone had a personality and I enjoyed the relationship between all of them.On the downside, I'm not saying Andrew Minyard owns the name, but I can't take anyone seriously with the name Andrew, because all I can think of is him when I hear/read it.
4145232535	4.5 Stars CWs: death and grief; mentions of suicide and self-harm; blood, gore, vomit, graphic injury, and graphic violence; drug use and inebriated driving; some homophobic slurs; brief reference to child abuse; and some graphic sexual contentI feel like I was destined to love Summer Sons, because it's a southern gothic take on dark academia with a side helping of queer ghosts. On the surface, this book has been pitched as "The Secret History" meets "Fast and the Furious," which is accurate to some extent, but in all reality, this story is a profound and visceral exploration of toxic masculinity and the inherent violent tradition of whiteness.Dark academia, as a subgenre, is aimed at exploring the corrupt underbelly of academic institutions, privilege, and excessive wealth. When we're considering dark academia stories set in the U.S., that disproportionate privilege and power is inherently tied to whiteness, and yet few dark academia stories truly dive head-first into exploring the implications of that intrinsic connection. Summer Sons stands apart in that it throws the reader right into the middle of this messy, chaotic, traumatized, reckless group of characters and names their toxicity for what it truly is. And though it doesn't much reckon with the reality that generational wealth and privilege—particularly that kind sanctioned by and tied to the institution of academia—is built off of the suffering and labor of marginalized communities, that fact is addressed in the story, which is also really important and something that many dark academia books fail to do.Toxic masculinity is, at is core, a perpetuation of loneliness, isolation, emotional illiteracy, distance, avoidance, disassociation, and detachment. Not only are these ideals and practices preserved in the tradition of whiteness, but they are bartered by men and masculine-identifying people in exchange for access to masculine power and masculine spaces. By that understanding, it's clear to see that toxic masculinity might manifest in very specific ways within queer men, and most dangerously in white queer men, who can levy their relative marginalization as a justification for perpetuating toxicity, harm, and even violence.Summer Sons examines how toxic masculinity has infected these characters, to the point of literally haunting and possessing some of them, and the plot pushes them to the breaking point in order to see just how far they're willing to go in order to avoid their unresolved traumas. In this book, the ghosts or spirits are referred to as "revenants," spiritual entities that feed off of violence and blood in order to gain power. As the revenants lurk on the periphery of Andrew's consciousness, it's clear to see that they represent the dangerous hold trauma has on his life. As they gain power and begin to claim more of his body, energy, agency, and awareness, he becomes more and more terrified, simply because ceding control—in any measure, or any sense—is a white man's worst nightmare.At its core, this story really interrogates the willful assimilation into toxic masculinity in hopes of gaining acceptance. Even though Andrew is essentially being haunted by his not-quite-friend/not-quite-lover to the point where everyone around him *knows* it, he still goes to great lengths to hide it and to avoid drawing attention to it. Not only is this indicative of his internalized homophobia that he's wielding against himself, but it speaks to how men and masculine-identifying people have internalized the message that asking for help is equivalent to weakness. And it also speaks to a larger phenomenon of isolation that is created and upheld by white masculinity. Whiteness itself, in America, is not a culture. It is not a heritage. It is not a unifying identity that is conducive to community. And that lack of community is the true weakness that keeps men isolated.In the words of Alok Vaid-Menon: "[This] is the collateral that men are told [to pay]. 'Keep quiet. Don't sensitize yourself to anything. Shut up. Don't have any personality beyond what is marketed to you. Don't display any vulnerability, and you're going to get power.' But that kind of power is loneliness...White cis straight men don't have community. They have hyper-isolation and they have hyper-disassociation that they mistake as personality. In relinquishing that false project of power, [people] are allowed to be vulnerable, and vulnerability is the basis of community."That conflict is a huge part of what makes this story so fascinating, because there's an irony to how Andrew suddenly finds himself in what would seem like a community of Eddie's university friends who have an established dynamic and rapport, and yet he is more alone than ever. And yet he insists on separating him further and making himself *be* alone so that he doesn't have to relinquish any power by coming off as "strange" or "weak." It's an intimate look at how he is intentionally and willfully hurting himself just so that doesn't put a target on his back and lose his place within this friend group. He's only able to start making any progress, emotionally and logistically, once he starts opening up and actually giving the people around him chances to see what he's really dealing with and who he really is.And as with most ghost stories, Summer Sons is really about trying to find some semblance of peace, a way to satiate the revenants and be rid of them, which is a really powerful message when you look at it through this metaphorical lens of revenants representing trauma, toxicity, abuse, and violence. It's a story that centers a character who is essentially saying, "I will not let this control my life. I have to let go of the things that are hurting me if I want to survive. I know there is a better way to live than this." That idea is tied together with the connection between revenants and the unresolved mystery of what truly happened to Eddie, and I think the story is even more memorable for it.I think it's also interesting how the story is able to explore the underside of toxic masculinity by really reveling in the dark, deep, complicated emotions that Andrew keeps hidden away. The irony is that he is a deeply emotional person grappling with grief, love, internalized homophobia, fear, and uncertainty, even though he goes to great lengths to repress those things. The angst, the posthumous yearning, the slow-burn homoerotic tension in this story are truly god-tier, and it's the teeming richness of this hidden emotional landscape that ultimately leads the book to a place of hopefulness in regards to masculine relationships. The connections between the characters are more authentic, honest, and open by the end of the story, and the characters are celebrated as being stronger for it, even though they may still have a ways to grow.The one thing that kept this from being a five-star book for me, personally, was the pace of the plot and the development of the mystery itself. This story is extremely aesthetic and compelling, but it feels, at times, like the mystery element gets lost or forgotten. Just over the halfway mark, I realized that while I was completely invested, I hadn't learned anything more about Eddie's death that I couldn't already gather myself from the synopsis or from the first twenty pages. It takes a very long time for Andrew to make any significant progress in figuring out this mystery, which is the center of the story, and that made me question where the story was going at times.I also struggled a little bit with the world-building elements, because the origins of the revenants aren't revealed until almost the end of the book, and I think the story could have benefited from exploring that earlier. It was also a bit difficult for me to grasp the mechanics of the revenants—what triggers them, how to break their hold, what they want, the limits of what they're able to do, etc. By the end, I had a much better (if still imperfect) grasp on the dynamic between humans and revenants, but again it took a long time to get there.But those two things were not huge deal-breakers for me, and I can still say with certainty that this is going to be a story that stands out to me when I look back on my reading in 2021. It's dark, it's twisted, it's angsty, and the fact remains that it is not one to be missed.
4352195758	Summer Sons was a solid Southern Gothic. I found it a little too broody and the ending was predictable, but I enjoyed the atmosphere and creative supernatural aspect.
3811553534	More a 4.5/5 stars, but still a damn good book!In the Southern Gothic Summer Sons, Andrew Blur is moving to Nashville after his friend and adoptive brother, Eddie Fulton, has committed suicide. Eddie has left Andrew a vast inheritance, not only including wealth, but also a position in the Vanderbilt University graduate program (I didn't even know you could do that). However, since Eddie's death, Andrew has been haunted by a malevolent ghost that drains his emotions, strength, and vitality. The ghost is some form of Eddie that is more possessive and dangerous--or was Eddie always like that? Joined by Eddie's roommate Riley, and Riley's jovial cousin Sam, Andrew tries to figure out what happened Eddie, for the boy he knew and repressed his love for could not have ended his own life. But the journey to the truth may cost Andrew more than he already has.Summer Sons is a look at Southern masculinity, particularly through the perspective of a white queer man. All of the characters in the book, no just the men, are affected by masculinity, both healthy and toxic (but mostly toxic) in various ways. Andrew is constantly suppressing his emotions and his desire to reach out for help and any time he has a volatile outburst, the ghost returns to feed upon him. It hurt to watch Andrew be constantly assailed by the ghost; I wanted him to break free and ask for help and it made me, and Andrew himself, question who Eddie really was to him. Throughout the book in general, many of the queer men in general cannot show their affections to one another, both platonic and romantic, because of their setting. This creates massive isolation and strains their ability to speak with another; it mostly affects Andrew.Most of the characters are fleshed out and their interactions with each other and character arcs reflects how they have had to navigate Southern masculinity and its affects in their lives. Andrew is shown the most progress because this is his journey. However, Sam was probably the next best after Andrew. He is Riley's cousin and is also queer, but he is still probably the most masculine character in the entire book (I believe the term for this in the LGBT+ community is "masc"?). He loves his cousin and definitely has an aggressive side and does have his own shell he resides in, but he is also surprisingly the most expressive and happiest character in the book. I loved the development between him and Andrew and how they bounced off one another.One character who did suffer a bit though was Del. Del, Delilah, was a friend and former sexual partner of Andrew and Eddie's, though she was able to see what Andrew didn't see or refused to see. She is also a bit more masculine than most girls which was one of the reasons she initially befriended Andrew and Eddie. However, Andrew and Eddie's relationship with her was clearly an objectifying one, something the book points out. Del was often very upset in the book, often with Andrew, and it was almost her entire personality. She does change a little after a come-to-heart moment with Andrew. Del isn't a terrible character, and I understand Lee Mandelo's point with her: she is someone who is affected by the fallout of toxic masculinity forcing two young men to hide their feelings for one another. However, I do wish her personality was bit more than that.Summer Sons also touches upon how the history of Southern academic institutions and wealth families were built upon the backs of racial minorities. This is only briefly touched upon when it explains where the wealth of Eddie's ancestors came from, but describes it enough to realize how fundamental it is in the setting and doesn't beat us over the head. West, another character, is a young Black man who is also affected by this history as he constantly denied by the university and a specific White professor for his research in favor of Eddie's research that has been transferred to Andrew. Summer Sons has a lot to talk about and I think it accomplishes these discussions well.But the real crème de la crème of the book, is the prose! Mandelo is a master at writing. The prose is so haunting, lush, claustrophobic, and vivid that I can feel the Southern heat, the wet dew on the grass, the smell of gas form the cars, and the skin and muscular arms of all the boys here. Everything is described in rich, haunting detail from Andrew's feelings of loneliness and and bodily responses to certain actions to even the appearance of bruises and the hot, electrifying sex scene--seriously, one of the best M/M sex scenes I have ever read. It is truly a Southern Gothic prose! This prose fills Andrew's thoughts, senses, and emotions and shows us what he's truly feeling within each moment of every sentence of every page.I was very satisfied with Summer Sons. From the progression of the narrative--which started off slow, but then picked up--to the atmosphere and emotions that seeped through the pages form the words themselves. This is a haunting, engrossing, sad, and bittersweet story. One of repression, regrets, anger, isolation, and angst, but also of acceptance, love, and freeing oneself from what hold them down and I highly recommend it as one of the best novels I've read all year. There is one part that I'm sad about, but I will place it under spoilers. (view spoiler)[I am sad that Andrew and Sam went from being in love to having to restart their their relationship at the end. There's potential for them to hit it off again, I'm just sad that Andrew had to suffer something else again after everything else. (hide spoiler)]It Mexican Gothic and Gideon the Ninth resurrected the love for the traditional Gothic genre, then Summer Sons will open the door for the Southern Gothic. I wish I could write more and do this book justice, but I've said all I've could.
3969229981	one of my most anticipated releases for this year but this shit was such a snore. i liked the atmospheric writing and cool gothic vibes i guess. so many scenes just felt very redundant and repetitive. no variation to the boring conversations or the drug use or partying. just empty pretty words and angsty tumblrcore vibes.
4028479791	Review originally posted at Cemetery Dance:https://www.cemeterydance.com/extras/...Summer Sons takes a long, hot, minute before it reaches down to stir up all those horror vibes simmering just under the surface.The story centers on the relationship between Andrew and Eddie. Their seemingly indestructible bond is threatened when Eddie decides to go away for school. Ultimately, Andrew feels like he needs to be with Eddie no matter the cost but before they can reunite, Eddie takes his own life.In classic, slow, Southern Gothic style, Mandelo plunges Andrew into the dark mystery surrounding his friend’s suicide. Part of learning what happened forces Andrew to tap into Eddie’s new scene of fast cars, wild nights, and new faces; a part of his friend’s life that developed apart from him, and it conjures up some feelings.There’s a delicious hook within the first few chapters, and the storytelling voice is immediately appealing. Heading into the middle of the book, the story gets bogged down some. Having zero interest in cars, I skimmed all the “Fast and Furious” scenes but even still, I had trouble staying interested. The main issue is a lack of character development. Mandelo doesn’t go deep with Andrew until closer to the end and, by that time, the emotional impact doesn’t land as hard as it could have had there been that early investment. He’s not the most endearing of characters. But this isn’t to say readers won’t be able to connect emotionally because this story has the potential to tap into everyone’s personal experiences with loss, grief, and that horrible feeling of too-little-too-late.I think it’s powerful that Mandelo crushes queer stereotypes with Summer Sons. Andrew is definitely not openly gay and some of the other queer relationships are complicated. This is an honest reflection of the queer community — love is love and this means that sometimes people fall in love with people regardless of their sexual identity or gender, which can be confusing. I’m sure readers will complain that they were expecting more clearly defined queer characters, but I actually appreciated the fluidity.This is the perfect book to bring with you to the lake house or on a vacation where there are endless hours available to get lost in a story that is in no real hurry to leave. The haunting atmosphere coupled with Mandelo’s intimate, seductive prose will compliment anyone’s fantasy of sipping iced tea on a sweltering day with a book that gives you the chills.
4813378464	"is there anything in this scenario that feels heterosexual or well-adjusted to you?"insane what that book made me feel...grief, lost hopes, found family and healing, never sounded so amusing to me. i've cried and smiled, this book had me on a chokehold.also sam halse i love you <3
3802252949	4.75 ⭐️Adored this
5711769855	✰ 4 stars ✰ “Dangers stacked onto dangers, but provided no clear answers. The tomb of the bedroom above him filled him with a miserable, childish yearning: his head hurt, his hands hurt, his soul hurt, his hangover was monumental, and he missed Eddie.” What Lies Beneath meets Get Out with a hint of History is All You Left Me is what encapsulates Summer Sons - a supernatural mystery-thriller set in the deep south where a young returns home to find the hidden truth behind his best friend's unexplained and unsuspecting apparent suicide. And yet, despite all these similarities that I saw with other media, this was still an intriguing read. It was different, even with all the nods to these references - Lee Mandelo's writing takes awhile to sink into your skin, but I think it was very effective in portraying the heady-haze of the South and capturing the overall gloom and melancholic feel of Andrew's grief. 😢 Because, it's not only grief that Andrew is channeling - it's also the sole intent to investigate deeper into Eddie's mysterious 'supposed' suicide. It's also having to figure out these unresolved and unaddressed feelings of what his relationship had been like with his best friend - that he's too late to realize that they have been 'more than just friends'. 🥺“He couldn’t think of a single explanation that was going to make this seem reasonable. The true answer didn’t seem like the smartest: my best friend is dead, and I’m out of my fucking mind.”Add to that, he also is trying his best to explain this stirring in his heart and stomach for Eddie's roommate's cousin, Sam Halse, who as much as he provokes and taunts and pulls him out of his shell, he's never felt more protected and safe and shielded then when he's with him. It's a stir of a forbidden fruit - a freedom so unattainable, yet still within reach - if he only chooses to accept it. And the cherry on top - he's also struggling to keep at bay, the haunting revenant that's in possession of his soul - coaxing him at every twist and turn, deeper into the secrets that lie beneath him.Sounds like a real page-turner! And it was - in it's own intriguing way. I think, by adding the supernatural element, while not exactly easy to pull off, it made it a little different than just a mystery suspense thriller of finding out the truth. As distraught as Andrew was portrayed - I felt his grief and his frustration of not being wholly satisfied with all these newly-discovered aspects he was discovering about Eddie. The tension and unease that he was feeling was very well conveyed - and a lot of the start of the book was dedicated to him trying to grasp those emotions. But, once he set aside that - once he saw the severity of what Eddie had been caught up in - as the spirit attempted to possess him even further - I found myself immersed and intrigued to find out what exactly led to his apparent suicide. 👍🏻👍🏻“Something akin to disdain, there and gone. To her, was Andrew another scholarship kid, a different sort than Riley but a charity case all the same? She was old blood, watching him pick up the leftovers of a family hers had known for generations.” I also appreciated ow the author captured the disquietness that Andrew felt when he returned home in the South - this heady haze of unrest and something prevalent thrumming with his interactions with Eddie's college professors - the whiteness of the society is unnerving yet telling that there was something about this place that was not right. 😳 The author keeps that unease present at all times, with the chilling and untimely spirit attacks he endures that lure him further into the woods that hold the answers to the questions that are evading him. The writing it doesn't quite flow, but it grows on you, as you move through the scenes with Andrew. That at the same time he takes a more active approach in Eddie's work, he also gets better acquainted with the people who kept Eddie company while he was alive.“If something had been done to Eddie, he had an idea of where to start asking: Sam Halse’s arrogant, dangerous, seductively entertaining fiefdom.”The bond of friendship that developed between Andrew and his roommate, Riley, and his cousin, Sam, definitely began on shaky ground. But, the three of them were united in their desire to find out what really happened to their friend - there was this glow of youth that they brought into Andrew's life - with the smoky drug sessions and the adrenaline rush of street racing. And supernatural vibes aside, they went out of their way to make him feel welcome, even if it was the abrasive method Sam adopted. 🤍 🤍 I liked that as Andrew began to understand something about his sexuality and attraction to other men, he was able to have someone like Sam to fall back on - to have as a comfort and support. Even with the brashness and crudeness and harshness, Sam showed towards him, he did genuinely care about him. And Andrew needed that - and was willing to even let go of the ghost of his past to prove that he did care enough for him to let a part of his past go. 😔In the end, Lee Mandelo did a really great job of bringing all the pieces together - the ending was a little bit ambivalent in explaining a few notions to the supernatural part, but having Andrew find peace with his past and present was certainly worth seeing. ✨✨
4227271272	"for fuck's sake, andrew. is there anything in this scenario that feels heterosexual or well-adjusted to you?" this is my favorite sentence in existence everyone else can go home.andrew and eddie were the best of friends, brothers, maybe even something more. days before andrew joins eddie at vanderbilt’s graduate program, eddie dies of an apparent suicide. reeling, andrew is left with a horrible inheritance - his properties, roommate and friends, and a lurking revenant that whispers of revenge. as he seeks to uncover the truth behind eddie's death, he discovers blood-soaked secrets and the walls he constructed against the world begins to crumble, letting in the phantom that hungers for him.so. summer sons. where do i even start?many said this would be right up the alley of fans of aftg and the raven cycle. y’all were absolutely right. this had the essence of my favourite parts of the dream thieves and aftg - hot stupid boys with fast cars - and then some more. much more. summer sons is an unrelenting exploration of masculinity, toxic academia and how racism is baked into it, and grief. and this gets elevated to a whole other level because of the writing and how delicious (yes) it is.because the prose. oh god the prose. i still marvel at how atmospheric it was. you know something is written well when it evokes a physical reaction. the way each line barely lets you catch a breath before relentlessly dragging you back under. you feel the stifling summer heat, the clammy palms, gasoline burning your lungs, and you drown in the many-faceted enormities of grief that suffocates andrew.the writing was so enticing that i literally had to cover each page with my hands as my traitorous eyes kept wandering around in feverish pursuit of answers.this also checked all the boxes, merging beautiful writing with strong characters. for example, eddie’s already dead when the story opens yet his presence demands attention. lee mandelo weaves memories and moments of reminiscing with the narrative to give you glimpses of eddie. so you feel like you know eddie and you grieve with andrew, even though technically you’ve never met him.there’s already so much going on right? well strap in for more! because this is also a book about relationships, imperfect as they are. there’s codependency, begrudging but honest bonds, and fiery passion. all these relationships that hold onto andrew as he desperately claws and claws out of the ground that is threatening to swallow him whole. there’s also a romantic subplot that i won’t spoil as it was An Experience but i hope you read it and go as feral as i did. and the miles and miles of repressed longing? it left a cosmic hole in my chest.this is easily one of my favorite books of the year. I physically cannot stop thinking about it.cw: substance use (drugs and alcohol), drink driving, death, gore, homophobic slurs, internalized homophobia, suicide references___pre-read thoughts:i hear "repressed yearning and hot stupid boys with fast cars" and i hit "add to cart" at the speed of light
3500429695	Y'all are not even ready for this one.In case you need more details: ghosts! speeding cars! nuanced depictions of masculinity! slow burn! grief and trauma! academia sucking a lot! gay shit! Southern gothic that puts Faulkner to shame! guys drinking beer! BONES! and all wrapped up in beautiful thoughtful writing to boot.Honest to god if you like stuff that is gay, spooky, and really truly handsomely written, you're gonna like this a whole lot.
3803206897	Thank you Tor Books for the free review copy. Also, big thanks to the Night Worms for being awesome reading / review buddies!SUMMER SONS is a fresh take on Southern gothic suspense that mixes an ample amount of genres, including supernatural horror, fantasy, coming of age, mystery, all combined with a few action-packed scenes. It’s a story of ghosts, grief, and friendship, and I enjoyed it quite a lot.Andrew and Eddie had a bond greater than if they were brothers. Eddie went off to graduate school in Nashville, and Andrew wasn’t far behind. But when Eddie was found dead, an apparent suicide, Andrew is devastated. He just doesn’t believe his best friend would kill himself. Even more curious, Eddie left Andrew everything in his wake. He inherits his house, money, friends, the mystery of his death, and a few hauntings.SUMMER SONS has queer characters, drugs, fast cars, plenty of suspicion, secrets, and even possession. The pacing slows down a bit in the middle and may feel overly detailed, but that didn’t slow me down one bit. The heart of the story is about facing past trauma and dealing with intense loss. Andrew is not only haunted by Eddie’s death, he is haunted by his life. I highly recommend you add this one to your fall reading list.
4896888875	4.0 StarsThis is a slow burning southern queer story. I loved the school setting which gave me unexpected dark academia vibes. I also loved the street racing car moments. The story builds slowly with a heavy focus on the characters and their interrelationships. These kinds of narratives don't always work for me, but I found there was always enough suspenseful atmosphere to keep going. I would recommend this one to anyone who loves these kinds of Gothic Horror stories.
7516161629	𖦹.ᡣ𐭩˚ started 27.04.25 ˖ finished 27.04.25 . ݁⊹ . ݁˖ . ݁ / ∿‧⁺. ෆ❝having been loved wasn't the same as being loved.❞ 「 ⸝⸝📋⊹ 」
4180605625	This book is being pitched as The Secret History + Fast and Furious, and having read it, I can say what I really wanted out of it: little more gothic dark academia horror, little less sweaty boys on highways.
5297926210	⭐️ 5 stars ⭐️ 🎧𝙨𝙤𝙣𝙜 𝙢𝙖𝙩𝙘𝙝 — 𝘼𝙣𝙤𝙩𝙝𝙚𝙧 𝙇𝙞𝙛𝙚 𝙗𝙮 𝙈𝙤𝙩𝙞𝙤𝙣𝙡𝙚𝙨𝙨 𝙄𝙣 𝙒𝙝𝙞𝙩𝙚🎧 // With a candle through time, I could still see your ghostBut I can't close my eyes, for itFor it is there where you haunt me most // « My best friend is dead, and I’m out of my fucking mind. » If I were to describe Summer Sons with just one word, it would have to be heartbreaking. ~ spoilers ahead ~ A queer southern gothic thriller, a story of grief and what-could-have-beens, unspoken truths and mysteries to uncover. The writing was absolutely captivating, which made the grief so vivid and gut-wrenching, almost like I could feel Eddie’s loss myself. The room felt so freshly interrupted he was surprised the chair wasn’t warm to the touch. Home was where Eddie was; home was nowhere, now. It hurts so much to think about what they could’ve had. Ugh, I’m tearing up again. Bones like fingers combed through his hair. Indistinguishable murmuring touched the shell of his ear. He had a moment to think, Eddie, before the dream took him under.The blend of mystery, supernatural elements, a queer slow burn romance, found family and a bit of anxiety-inducing street racing made this a phenomenal read, different from my usual queer fiction, and a wild, intense ride from start to finish. "Salt is a thing, right? I'm making this up as I go along.""What is this, an episode of Supernatural?""Looks just like one," he agreed without humor. A thousand bonus stars for the Supernatural reference. Really though, I don’t think I have any more adjectives to describe how I feel about this book. I’m devastated, my heart hurts, but that ending also left me hopeful, and I’m definitely imagining more happy moments to come in Andrew’s future. Having been loved wasn’t the same as being loved. CWs (spoilers): - Violence- Death - Grief - Homophobia - Drugs/Alcohol - Non-consensual drugging
4228200928	Southern gothic horror meets dark academia in this intricately woven narrative of grief, facing your past, uncovering the truth, and coming to terms with who you really are. Summer Sons is the sort of book that creeps up on you and then holds you riveted and breaks you in the best possible way. It's also super queer.Eddie was Andrew's best friend, more than a brother. But six months ago he left to begin graduate studies at Vanderbilt and became cagy about Andrew joining him. Now he's dead, apparently by suicide, and Andrew is there to pick up the pieces he's inherited. But he doesn't believe Eddie would have killed himself and is determined to retrace his steps and uncover what really happened.But Andrew and Eddie share a dark secret that haunted them for years. And Andrew is quite literally being haunted by a ghostly presence, but he refuses to think about that piece of his past. Much like he refuses to admit that his feelings for Eddie went far beyond friendship. But the people he encounters in Nashville slowly begin to break down his walls, even as his taking up Eddie's graduate research speeds him toward dangerous answers.This book intrigued me from the very beginning, but it really burrowed its way under my skin. If you're expecting something that is full of intense horror and paced like a thriller, you aren't going to get it. Rather the horror elements creep up on you and are inextricably linked to how we come to understand the characters. And this does a beautiful job of driving home that the true horrors to be found in the American South include assumed heteronormativity and a racist past and present. Andrew wrestles with his internalized homophobia and intense grief and anger. A Black side character faces discriminatory treatment in a mostly white academic department and old plantation houses become sites of horror in more ways than one. I really ended up loving this and had so many feelings following Andrew's journey. The audio narration is fantastic and completely nails the creepy southern vibe. I received an audio review copy via NetGalley. All opinions are my own.Note that this book includes violence, gore, occult rituals, drug use, and some explicit sexual content, as well as dealing with grief etc.
4420694961	Let me start by saying that this is NOT going to be for everyone. The descriptions are a bit misleading as to what the reader is in for. You think it’s a horror story with monsters and such... and it is, to some extent...but the reader has to separate the ghost in the room from the one in Andrew’s head. One of the scariest scenes in the entire book is when Andrew feels the ice-cold foot crawl into bed with him on his first night home. He doesn’t dare look but he knows deep in his bones that it’s Eddie. This is also a story that deeply hinges on the exploration of grief, loss, denial, and a hunt for truth set against an atmospheric backdrop of the deep south. The book also attempts to show the darker side of academia and privilege. A lot to wrap up in one story, but it fleshes into a memorable and excellent ghost story, on both physical and metaphorical levels. You won’t always like the main characters, nor will their behavior set well with everyone, but it will produce several good cases of goosebumps long after the final page is turned.Actual rating 4.5 Stars
3948582662	Wow. Just wow. Highly recommend checking out Summer Sons! However, I do not recommend reading it the way I did, which was listening to the audiobook during the entire two hour drive to spend the night - ALONE - at my friend’s house while she’s out of town. I’m a giant scaredy cat and it didn’t occur to me that listening to a gothic horror novel when I would have to be by myself overnight was a bad idea until I was unloading my car at the aforementioned friend’s house and almost jumped out of my skin when a jogger ran past me & scared the shit out of me, lmao.Summer Sons is a fairly heavy read that covers a lot of potentially triggering topics (most prominently death, grief, and discussion of suicide), but as usual with my audiobook reads, I was multitasking while I listened and thus did not take detailed content warning notes, so please check other reviews for more thorough CW lists and read with care!EDIT: Oh, also, a note on the rep - I use fairly specific goodreads shelves to note the rep in the books I read because I find it helpful, but for the most part the characters’ identities are never stated on page so I’m not comfortable shelving Summer Sons as having gay or bi/pan rep, but almost every prominently features character in this book is queer in some way, and there is an M/M romantic subplot. Also, Andrew’s roommate Riley (one of the main characters) is definitely trans masc and polyamorous (there are references to his top surgery scars & name change, and he has both a girlfriend & a boyfriend).Love queer books, too? Let's be friends! Booktok | Bookstagram | Twitter | Booktube
3811631713	ALL HAUNTINGS ARE LOVE STORIES THAT BEG TO COMFORT YOU!RTC !!!----------if The Dream Thieves gave me mental illness at 13, then Summer Sons is here to enable that at 21----------shaking my ass rn because my bookstore just called and said that my copy came in god bless 😭----------of fucking course i preordered. i see the words "fast cars", "hot boys", and "family history soaked in blood and death" and i SLAM that purchase button. also, i've been following lee and his writing since his TRC fandom days...LMFAOoh, ronan lynch, we are really in it now...Again!----------ronan lynch's hot girl summer from The Dream Thieves round 2, here we go!!!
4621560289	Summer Sons was everything I've ever wanted in a Southern gothic horror. This story felt just as intoxicating as the fast cars, broken boys and enigmatic ghosts filling its pages. An unexpectedly hard-hitting read charged with dark family histories, deliciously tension-filled romance and the hurt that comes with reconciling the death of a friend—one that seems keen on sticking around as a less-than-whole haunt. Before giving a detailed synopsis, I feel the need to include this quote, which—even without context—encompasses the feeling of Summer Sons perfectly. Ok, hear me out….“Andrew Blur, the least willing of all to fuck with Eddie’s dumb gothic bullshit, had spent the night passed out in the woods amidst unnamed graves, and his new acquaintances were no doubt after his ass for dissapearing. He couldn’t think of a single explanation that was going to make this seem reasonable. The true answer didn’t seem like the smartest: My best friend is dead, and I’m out of my fucking mind.”Yeah, this book was everything. (I’m also heavily biased, because it really reminded me of my favourite series The Raven Cycle, and my favourite character of all time—Ronan Lynch—who comes from said series). ~★~ What is Summer Sons about? ~★~ Eddie and Andrew were inseparable, best friends that could hardly live life apart until Eddie moved away for his graduate program. Everything would work out, though, since Andrew was supposed to settle in with him six months later. Days before Adrew can join him, though, Eddie dies of an apparent suicide. All Andrew is left with are the broken fragments of their friendship, and the inheritance Eddie left entirely to him: his unfamiliar house, roommate, and friend group.Here’s the catch: Andrew isn’t buying the story of Eddie’s death, convinced that his friend was murdered. As he moves in to Eddie’s home, Andrew becomes plagued by his ghost, which seems awfully determined to tell him something. Dirty secrets are unearthed in pursuit of the truth, leading Andrew to question his entire past with Eddie, forcing him to investigate the world of violent and eccentric boys he’d become acquainted with before the end.────── {⋆★⋆} ──────I was initially worried that I wouldn’t like this book, since it took me a while to warm up to Andrew as a protagonist. His closed-off demeanor felt slightly off-putting before the full extent of his grief was divulged to readers. Upon gaining all the fragments of Andrew’s pent-up frustration and feeling over Eddie’s death (as well as, which he would eventually realize, the unconscious repression of his queerness) made it impossible not to sympathize with him. Andrew is so complicated and messy in a way that feels all too real; I can hardly pinpoint a way to adequately describe how I feel about him, especially since I cycled through so many contrasting emotions throughout his narrative.The side characters swiftly stole my heart. The cousins—Riley and Sam—were so effortlessly charming, while also managing to be complete disasters with their tendencies to party, street race and get high whenever possible. I was transfixed with both of their slow-developing bonds to Andrew, especially considering how drastically different their dynamics with him were. The circumstances surrounding Andrew being haunted by Eddie’s ghost (and the possibility that he was murdered) added the perfect amount of tension to all their interactions, since Andrew met the cousins with the intention of finding out if they killed him.Mandelo’s writing was a bit hard for me to get into initially; it’s very description-heavy in a way that I’m not used to. As I kept flipping, though, I came to love the stifling atmosphere created by such vivid imagery—I could practically sense the gas, sweat and summer of it all, and became quickly absorbed by the Southern setting. Andrew’s internal monologue was particularly striking its ability to convey grief and all its irrational facets so well. I knew this was marketed as a horror, but I don’t think that aspect was entirely prominent until the climax (which was fantastic, mind you). The extent of the horror you’ll get before the near-end is some in depth descriptions of what it feels like to be entered(?), or something, by a ghost. The creepiness was prevalent, though I don’t think I’d consider this full-blown horror. It’s definitely a great intro for those who want to dip their toes into the genre, though!Finally, the romance (I’m breathless just thinking about it). Andrew coming to terms with his sexuality through fractured memories from Eddie’s ghost, as well as Sam pretty much just existing, was executed brilliantly. Andrew’s repression and denial portrayed as a side-effect of his seemingly one-sided love for Eddie broke my heart a little, but I’m so happy he eventually lets himself want Sam without sidestepping the implications.Also, Riley’s reaction to their pairing was hilarious (+ transgender rep, you love to see it!!).If you don’t mind slower paced stories, and enjoy characters and atmosphere over a quick paced plot, Summer Sons is one to check out for sure!
4182585573	this book feels like those couple of weeks of summer trasinitoning into fall (my favorite “season”), humid and hot in a claustrophobic way but also with a bit of a chill creeping in. perfect
4012310036	I was very worried about starting this book. I stared at it for several months before working up the nerve to crack the cover. It is very thick (but I’ve been reading a lot of novellas) and some of the reviews said things that made me go “uh oh, I might not like that very much either'' and also “uh oh, it has so many pages, what if it destroys my desire to read forever? WTF am I gonna do with myself then?” I admit the inside of my head is an overly dramatic place sometimes but this book scared me before I even read one of its words. It features the aftermath of something I try to avoid reading about most of the time because I don’t want to fall into a funk. Friends warned me so I waited for a time when I was ready and I’m glad I did (thank you friends, I love you for that). This book begins after an apparent suicide (not a spoiler, please don’t yell at me because it says so on the back cover and it tells you almost immediately) and it deals with the feelings of the very angry, very upset, very tortured young man who has been left behind. It’s raw and heavy stuff and the grief and resulting destructive behavior is pretty damn accurate. Save this one for a time when you have a few hours to sink into it.Andrew had planned to meet up at a fancy University to move in with his best friend Eddie who left a few months earlier, settled in, began his research into regional occult folklore and then . . . died. Andrew is completely devastated by the loss when the book opens and heads out to discover exactly what happened because he simply can’t believe his best friend/adopted brother would do what he did. Following Andrew around like a black cloud along with his grief is the revenant of Eddie that haunts him. Andrew is thrown into a new world of fast cars, sexy new acquaintances and shady goings-on as he attempts to unravel the mysteries surrounding Eddie’s demise.This story is drenched in grief but it’s also filled with mystery, some damn good sexual tension and an overall feeling of unease. I loved it. I was truly surprised by just how much I enjoyed it because I’m not a huge fan of car racing and had some worries after reading a few reviews but those scenes went by quickly for me and seemed to help burn off some of that wild energy surrounding these people. Some readers may dislike Andrew and the entire cast of characters here and I get that. They are a messy delight - or at least I thought so. But they are not for everyone and at times they reminded me a wee bit of the characters in Poppy Z. Brite’s LOST SOULS. They’re imperfect, sometimes frigging mean and mostly unlikable, they treat women badly but I couldn't hate them just as I didn’t despise any of the people in this story who sometimes behave the same way. Andrew is 22 or 23. He’s barely begun his life when he loses the one person closest to him. Yup he’s rude, he sure is! He’s also a self-centered jerk and he dismisses the people trying to help him and he’s all of those terrible things that people are saying about him but he’s also lost and in a tragedy spiral while struggling to come to terms with his sexuality. That is A LOT for one young person to handle and I couldn’t hate him for any of it once I realized what was going on in his head. He’s also being relentlessly haunted by the angry revenant of his lost friend for some added emotional trauma. Grief manifests in many ways and this feels like an accurate depiction during this small snapshot in time as he starts to come to terms with everything. I mentioned above that some of the women in this story are treated badly but I also want to mention that the men and their bullshit get called out for it and can I tell you how much I loved that? Well, I’m telling you anyway because I loved that. We deserve to see more of that if you ask me.It’s a wildly emotional read and I’m giving it all five of my angsty stars. Yeah, maybe some stuff could’ve been trimmed a little bit or maybe I’m just spoiled by the pace of novellas but even with that said I had a hard time putting it down when people bugged me and I wanted to keep going with it because I couldn’t stop thinking about it. It may even become a comfort reread in the future. So, yeah, that’s a five for me.
3811501039	* e-ARC provided through NetGalley *2.5I've pondered on this rating for a good few hours, because of how hard this was for me to put into a numerical value. this is one of the rare cases in novels where most of it isn't the best, but the parts that aren't bad are actually phenomenal. Summer Sons started out so great, and it was right up my alley. summer mystery, queer, horror, and with a dark vibe? it could have been a masterpiece. alas, it was not, but the beginning definitely did make me think it would be.what I did have a problem with, as the story progressed were the repetitiveness and the characters. this book is long. it is long and I couldn't really see the point of its length because not much really happened. to me it seemed like the same things over and over and over. until around the 85% mark where the plot actually started progressing, I couldn't really get into it. now, the characters- they weren't bad, but they weren't great either. thankfully, there weren't many of them, and the story mainly focused on a few, but the ones that it did "put in the spotlight" felt underdeveloped and bland. they kind of mixed together at times, which made me confused as to who I was reading about. somehow, I couldn't get myself to like Andrew, the main character, until the very end of the book. which might have been a purposeful maneuver to show his character development, but still. for most of the pages he felt like (not to be overly harsh-) a typical cisgender, heterosexual guy. he just absolutely didn't have a personality, all of his answers and thoughts were the same, he had anger problems and internalized homophobia, it just sucked. at the end, though- okay, the end...this ending absolutely wrecked me. which is quite surprising considering this novel definitely isn't my favorite, but the last few pages hit me so hard. not only did I finally start to empathize with Andrew and began to like him as a character (since he was finally improving himself and evolving in a beautiful and admirable way), but when the mystery of what happened to Eddie finally was revealed, and we saw Andrew come to terms with all of it, I couldn't stop reading. I felt like for the last part of the book I held my breath, not because I was scared, but because there was a weird eerie calm about the aftermath of everything that had happened. and it was so refreshing to see Andrew deal with his trauma and with losing Eddie. it was beautifully and accurately presented, and I loved it. there were some parts of this that felt bizarre (don't get me wrong, a lot of it was, but not in this way), and, once again, maybe they were written that way on purpose. but even so, it didn't really feel like they fit into the story, or were rushed.oddly enough, I found myself loving and hating the "romance" part of this story. I put romance in quotes because there wasn't much of it here, it was only put at the end and it wasn't very elaborated on. nonetheless, I didn't expect it. I wasn't very fond of who Andrew ended up with, throughout the story, but got to appreciate the character a bit more when Andrew overcame his internalized homophobia and actually started... feeling stuff? that was beautiful.in summary, I think this had a lot of potential. even though my review was mostly negative, I think there's a very large audience of people who'd absolutely adore this. sadly, that isn't me. I saw one person describe Summer Sons as both "haunting and comforting," and I couldn't say it better myself. if that sounds like something you could potentially enjoy, (if you're willing to overlook character flaws) then I'd say give it a chance and judge it for yourself. :)
4245765222	Lee Mendelo’s debut novel tells a horror-tinged murder mystery story, set during a sweltering summer in Nashville, Tennessee where themes of grief, friendship and sexuality combine with street racing, dark academia and family curses to deliver one of 2021s most unique and engaging books.Eddie and Andrew are inseparable friends until Eddie accepts a place on a graduate program at the prestigious Vanderbilt University, studying local folklore. Andrew is excited to join him later in the year and is confused by Eddie’s seeming reluctance for him to begin attending. When Andrew learns that Eddie committed suicide under mysterious circumstances, he travels to his student home to learn more about the life he had created for himself, and to find answers about his friend’s unexpected death.As Andrew meets Eddie’s housemate Riley and new friends, including the dangerous and enigmatic Halse, he begins investigating the work he had been doing at the University leading up to his death. He becomes embroiled in a gang of street racers and finds himself in the middle of sordid academic conspiracies, all clues to Eddie’s apparent suicide, and which may be linked to a traumatic childhood incident that changed both boys’ lives forever.For a character who only features via occasional flashbacks, and almost entirely as someone only spoken about by the other characters, Eddie’s presence looms large over every aspect of this book. He is the conduit via which the books’ themes are explored and, particularly in the early sections of the book, the driving narrative force. While the book gradually shifts to focus on Andrew as he not only begins to discover more about the circumstances of Eddie’s death but also journeys closer towards his acceptance of it, this book begins being all about Eddie, insofar as our lead characters experiences revolve around him at the outset. It’s a testament to how talented a writer Mendelo is that you find yourself so heavily invested in a character you technically never meet.Our protagonist, Andrew, is equally engaging and is our relatable, but not always likeable, guide through Summer Sons. When we meet him, his grief is almost palpable and you get a sense early on that there was far more to his and Eddie’s relationship than simple friendship. One of the most heart-breaking elements of the book was watching Andrew sort through his feelings about Eddie through the lens of mourning. Mandelo doesn’t allow her lead to wallow, however, and Andrew develops a great deal as a character as the story progresses and the character we meet at the beginning is irrevocable changed by the final page. Whether for better or worse isn’t something I’ll be spoiling here. He seems most comfortable and at home in the seamier elements of his investigations (the parties, the street racing) but equally is more than intelligent enough to navigate the different (but no less perilous) pitfalls of academic studies and the back-stabbing and double-dealing that comes with it.While the melding of the book’s seemingly disparate elements makes for a unique premise, it also has the unfortunate side effect of making the book feel overstuffed at times. There is an engaging and emotionally charged story at the book’s core of a friendship that, in retrospect, promised to eventually develop into something more, and a thoroughly engaging murder mystery that comes out of that friendship. Throw in some classic literary academia, a southern gothic setting, a side-line of the seedy underbelly of drug dealing and drag racing and a supernatural element involving hauntings and curses, and there is an awful lot going here. That's without getting into the book’s tackling of issues of class and institutionalised racism. As a horror fan first and foremost, it pains me to say it, but it's the supernatural elements that often feel the most jarring or out of place. Lift this part out and you are still left with all the book’s strongest elements (Eddie, his friendship with Andrew, the murder mystery and Andrew’s journey of self-discovery with Halse and Riley) and perhaps most tellingly, very little impact on the story being told. When it works, it provides a creepy ambience and some tension but it is effective mostly as a metaphor for the complex relationship Eddie and Andrew shared, or a manifestation of Andrew’s grief, and tales of family curses and latent supernatural powers don't always mesh well with the other, more grounded elements in play.This is a minor quibble, however, noticeable only because everything else works so well. There will likely be some element of the book that will hook any reader, and ‘Summer Sons’ is immensely readable and thoroughly engaging from the very start, remaining unpredictable and unputdownable until the final page. Its strong characters and unique setting enhance what could have been just another Southern gothic horror thriller and delivers something far more interesting. I’m left genuinely excited to see what Mandelo follows this up with.
5934472265	4.5. Dizzying, sticky, and rife with building tension, Summer Sons consumed me from the very start and refused to let go. Mandelo’s writing is evocative and repetitive in a way that I don’t think will work for everyone but really worked for me. And the plot (or rather, slow descent into chaos and madness?), in true Raven Cycle-esque fashion, is dreamy and unsettling in, again, a way that I don’t think will work for everyone but, again, really worked for me.I always find it makes for an interesting reading experience when a pivotal character is no longer alive. In Summer Sons, Eddie has a presence larger than life, the sun center of the remaining characters’ solar system, but I kept having to remind myself that we would never actually be able to meet him. He is there in constant reference, in the hungry shadows that threaten to pull Andrew under, in the mess he left behind, but never as a tangible physical presence. The frustration and devastation of having the only avenue for true closure completely blocked is a constant weight pinning the story in place. I also love a good curse story, fated pieces gradually falling into place that a character has to struggle against. It created a constant push and pull that set my heart on edge.Just like Eddie (first) and Andrew (following closely in his footsteps), I couldn’t help but be drawn to and wrapped up in this dangerous, messy, and intoxicating world - and I wish I didn’t have to leave.
4554118771	Oh, the scariest thing about this book was how miserable I felt while reading it. What I liked: - There were creepy (ish) moments,- Some of the imagery was vivid,- (I am not a gay man but) The discussion on accepting your queerness I guess was well done,- Riley: I loved Riley, I wanted to protect Riley.- It was honest about the racial dynamics of the south. What I didn't like: UGH. Where do I begin.- Andrew: look I understand that he was being hunted, and going through a traumatic time but Andrew was legitimate not a good person. And he BARELY became empathetic towards the end. The lack of action from Andrew had me wanting to throw my book accross the room. I do not understand how this man had any friends. Even when we see him begin to grow it is not enough to make up for the misery that it was reading from his POV. I would not have a problem if he was meant to be unlikable, but Andrew is also presented as a "woke" white dude because he acknowledges his privilege. But even when he does, nothing changes. Not in the way he acts, nor on how the story moves forward.- Eddie: the more I learned about him the les I cared that he was dead.- Women: I don't know if the author knows women or hates women but the misogyny in this book was extensive. The female characters were either mean, bitchy, villanous, or non existence. Even the one good woman in the group had barely any personality and was mostly there to enhance Riley's story. (view spoiler)[ the professor being an ambitious, backstabbing, plagiarizing, racist murderer made sense but the fact that this was the only main female character in the story drove me crazy (hide spoiler)]- Pacing: the first 130 pages of this book are painful to get through. Nothing happens to advance the plot (except for multiple drag races) and we spend all our time with Andrew being a shit person. The second half gets somewhat better but not enough.- Themes of Privilege: this book obviously wanted to tackle ideas of white privilege and classism but neither of these themes were deeply explored. Race: We mostly had moments of Andrew realizing that POC were not present in the spaces he was and just feeling kind of bad about it. Other than West, the other two (three? was Del POC? I can't remember) characters of color were barely there to have any importance. The whole plot line with West and race in academia would have been much more impactful and interesting if we had spent ANY time at the university. (view spoiler)[ we then add that there is ZERO moment in which Andrew considers his own whiteness when accusing West of murder, it just really didn't work (hide spoiler)] Classism: We understand that Andrew is rich because Eddie left all his money to him. We also have multiple instances of Sam and Riley calling out his privilege and Andrew acknowledging it. And... that is all we get. He still treats his position in school with no regards, and faces 0 consequences. He really does nothing to demonstrate us that he is any different than Eddie in his relationship with money. The story WANTED to deal with these ideas, but it was only at surface level and not very enticing.- The mystery: It was okay. Took us too long to actually move forward though.Yeah,If you loved this book I am happy for you. I personally wish I could go back and literally pick up any other book.TW: Alcohol, Classism, Cursing, Death, Gore, Incest, Mental illness, Racism, Toxic friendship, Violence, Homophobia, Animal cruelty, Animal death, Body horror, Suicidal thoughts, Suicide, Suicide attempt, Toxic relationship, Abandonment, Blood, Confinement, Drug abuse, Drug use, Emotional abuse, Grief, Injury/injury detail, Murder, Sexism, and Slavery
3824741983	‘For a moment, he hadn’t felt alone’ Summer Sons is a novel that pulls you in with its skeletal fingers and doesn’t let you go. It’s a petrol fuelled, southern gothic story that’s filled with fast cars, angsty boys and a plot that will make you reenact the Charlie Day meme. What begins as a death of a best friend, turns into a slow, agonising decent of identity issues, grief & codependency. The take on being queer was something I’ve never really encountered before in books and I savoured it with each chapter. I can really see a lot of queer readers being able to understand and identify with the main character Andrew, in his pursuit of finding himself. If I could give this book more than five stars, I would. It was eerie, spooky, there was moments that really frightened me, which isn’t easy, but it also had beautiful moments of boys being tender, caring and protective. Mandelo’s writing, his prose, the way they were able to conjure such a beautiful, compelling novel that was also filled with such horror, dread and guilt has completely blown me away. Half way through the book, I started describing myself as a SFS, Simp for Sam. I don’t think I’ve felt this drawn and infatuated with a book character in nearly a year, so thank you for that. I’m actually quite upset that I’ve read it now because…It genuinely was a perfect book to me. The pacing, the setting, the characters, everything was perfect to me, and the fact that its a horror book that I can really relate to in the sense of being a gay trans man, has made me extremely happy. I envy all the new readers who’re going to experience this for the first time. Savour it. A huge thank you to Nightfire Books for giving me an advanced copy in the exchange for an honest review.BLOG | INSTA | TWITTER
5621606142	I just adored this book. This is one of those instances where a book feels like it was written just for me. Southern Gothic Hauntings, dark academia, coming to terms with complicated relationships and sexuality/ gender identify, explorations of grief. I want to just sink into this story and live in it. Andrew was a fantastic and floored protagonist with his experiences with grief being truly moving and witnessing how he navigates the relationships around him was multi layered and complex. This isn’t an ‘edge of your seat’ horror story, but is instead a seeping, atmospheric, boiling prose that builds with the reader throughout the book mirroring the mounting pressures present in the story. This book will live with me for some time to come. The twist wasn’t much of a surprise but it honestly kind of felt beside the point to the story as a whole, with the strength of this book existing in the interactions in the emotional core of Andrew, Sam, Eddie and Riley. Probably worth noting that this story has heaving CW for discussions/references to suicide so approach at your own caution.
4192604892	I really really wanted to love this. I had the highest of hopes and then my hopes got dragged through the mud. I just didn't love this book, or really like it.It felt like a snoooze fest for most of this book. This book is very repetitive and slow going from the start to the finish. I thought it would pick up the pace, but it never does. I just didn't like a single character. I understand Andrew is trying to cope with his best friend committing suicide, but I just wasn't a fan because he never redeemed himself and kept getting shittier in my eyes.Also, this is not horror. It isn't scary or creepy. It's about a group of people reeling from their friends death and driving fast cars and doing drugs. It's a coming of age story, but one I just did not care for.I wish I had some positive things to say, but I was just too bored to care.
4358994710	i'm sure i'm in the minority here, but i truly don't think the plot, the characters, or the horror aspects of this book hold up under close scrutiny. i also don't think that many car race scenes were necessary or relevant to ANY of the development of the plot lmao
4043407176	"He'd loved her once, or something close to it, years ago before the three of them had settled into their off-kilter unit. Now her paroxysm of grief and anger played out in front of him like a film, or the panic of a stranger, while he drifted in the void left where Eddie wasn't."Summer Sons is the haunting debut novel from Lee Mandelo. Massive thanks to the publisher for the copy! Summer Sons releases September 28th! I know I'm in the minority, but I've never been super into the "dark academia" trope. My experience with it has been mostly that of pretentiousness & privilege-- excessive wealth & whiteness, which most definitely doesn't excite me.NOTHANKYOUPLEASE!However.I dig Southern Gothics & occult fiction & subverted tropes, which Lee Mandelo has done here in spades! They have given us a queer coming-of-age dark academia ghost story. OH FUCK YES!!This isn't a spoiler, since it's in the blurb, but the story is centered around an apparent suicide. As a survivor myself, this is where warnings are so fucking important. SO IMPORTANT.Summer Sons is a twisty, intense, visceral story that examines toxic masculinity, repressed emotions, obsession, graduate students, institutionalized racism, folklore & fast cars.I adored Sam & Riley, the cousins. Riley is truly the cinnamon roll that I gravitated towards the most, because he is just so fucking precious! He's like, the only member of the crew that is somewhat stable & I think we could all use a Riley in our lives!GAH!Secrets, lies, street racing & a Very Hungry Ghost™.TW: Suicide, homophobia, racism, grief, death.
3924238785	This is the perfect moody book to read at the end of summer and beginning of fall. It puts you right in the humidity of the south with the eeriness of ghosty stuff. When I saw this being pitched as souther gothic dark academia I was all in. Our protagonist, Andrew is going through it when his best friend commits suicide right before he was about to move in with him at school. He inherits everything from Eddie, money, a house, his roommates, and ya know, some paranormal activity. While Andrew is trying to navigate life at Vanderbilt and the academic setting with a mismatched group of friends he is also being haunted by ghosts of his past and literal haunts. Moody, atmospheric, diverse, and gritty. This book had everything I look for. Seeing representation across the board (gender, race, sexuality) in a dark academia book is so refreshing. It really gets into the underbelly of prestigious academies but also Deep South mentalities. I loved every second of this.
6554394664	50 pages in, and I knew this book would stay with me forever. It was that rare, unique experience of reading a book, and feeling yourself changing with every word. I could feel my life wrap around Summer Sons, welcoming it into every gentle part of my heart. This was beautiful. Captivating. Gut-wrenching. My only critique of that book is that it, unfortunately, had to come to an end.
4029484948	*I received an audio copy of this book via NetGalley. This has not influenced my review.*This is one of those books that drags you in and drags you under. The writing is fantastic and gorgeous in just the right way to wrap you up in the story without being over-the-top, and the author does an amazing job of putting you into Andrew's head and showing the mental state he's in. Grief. Drunkenness. Deadly visions of specters and murder. Sometimes you'll be confused about what's happening, but that's because Andrew is a disaster of a character and doesn't know either.This book was dripping with sexual tension. I didn't even know a book could be so sexy while having so little actual sex in it. I've seen the words sweltering and hungry used in the marketing for this book, and yes, those are perfect words because of their multiple meanings. I didn't know if Andrew and Sam were going to fight or fuck or both, but I did know you could cut the tension with a knife. It was all lingering touches and barely restrained fury and Andrew watching beads of sweat roll down Sam's neck. But there was also the relationship between Andrew and Eddie. That one is hard to describe, because it was in the past, Eddie being dead and all, but it---and Andrew's grief---was still such an important part of the book. It had such an intensity to it, not to mention the longing and desire Andrew hadn't even realized was there until it was too late.That was another thing. This was an interesting perspective of a character figuring out his sexuality. He was so completely oblivious to it because of his own prejudice, until everyone else started pointing it out to him and he was pushed into confronting it.The characters were interesting and shitty and good all at once. (No spoilers, but you can skip this paragraph if you'd rather go in completely unaware and get to know the characters as you read.) Andrew really was just a mess of a human for most of the book, and his treatment of Del was awful, but he, thankfully, had some growth. When Sam was first introduced, my thoughts were, "This guy is bad news," because he was kind of a jerk, and he has that menacing air about him and so much presence and confidence, but then I warmed up to him. Eddie was somewhat similar, from the glimpses we got of him---seemingly charismatic but possessive. I felt bad for Riley though, having to deal with, let's face it, the absolute worst roommate ever.As you may have figured out by now, this was not an action-packed story. It was slow and mysterious and tense and focused on the characters and figuring out what happened to Eddie. But it was deliciously slow in a way that never lost my attention. I had no idea where the book was going or what was going to happen. None. And I loved it.There was not as much street racing as you might think, from how the book is marketed, but there was some, and the first race was written in a way that was so thrilling and fun to read.I'm not super familiar with either the Southern Gothic genre or the dark academia genre, but I think this might have been a bit of both. There are also horror elements, because Andrew can see ghosts and is being haunted by the dangerous revenant Eddie has left behind, but it's not a scary book. More like a paranormal mystery.I listened to the audiobook for this, and the narration by Will Damron was great. He sounded so natural and brought each character to life in ways that suited them perfectly. Voices were different enough in pitch and accent that I never struggled with who was talking. Female voices were fine. I initially wondered why the narration had a southern accent but Andrew's talking didn't, but then he mentioned how he'd gotten rid of his accent, though it still slipped into his speech sometimes, and then I felt like the narration decision made sense. I'm not familiar enough with southern accents to say if it was real or good, but I liked it and thought it brought a lot to the feel of the story.Honestly, "Whirling between the backstabbing academic world where Eddie spent his days and the circle of hot boys, fast cars, and hard drugs that ruled Eddie’s nights, the walls Andrew has built against the world begin to crumble," is possibly the most accurate description of a book I've ever seen. Overall, this book was sultry, tense, and atmospheric, with messy, flawed characters, an intriguing mystery, lots of queer rep, dangerous ghosts, buckets of sexual tension, and gorgeous writing that pulled me in!*I've read this book multiple times. This review was written after my 1st read.**Rating: 4.5 Stars // 1st Read Date: 2021 // Format: Audiobook**Rating: 4.5 Stars // 2nd Read Date: 2024 // Format: Audiobook*Recommended For:Anyone who likes disaster characters, queer rep, gorgeous writing, dangerous ghosts, grief, mystery, street racing, sexuality confusion, and buckets of sexual tension. Original Review @ Metaphors and Moonlight
3802416663	I really wanted to like this one. The beginning was very promising, but the effect wears off quickly. And the longer I'm reading this book, the more frustrating it gets and the angrier I get.So what exactly is wrong with this book? Quite a bunch of things. I don’t even know where to begin.The characters are all unsympathetic. Andrew is an asshole. He’s grieving, yes, but underneath his grieving he’s still an asshole. And all he does all day is bitching and assholery. And Eddie is even the bigger asshole. And so are all of the friends. There’s not a single positive trait about any of them.The story is supposed to be about grief, mystery and ghosts, but almost nothing of this actually happens. There’s next to no plot. I love detailed writing, I love to know how everything and everyone looks. But without a plot moving forward this feels like pointless chatter and becomes annoying quite quickly.The biggest turn-off is how dumb the story is. Andrew is madly determined to find out what happened to his best friend slash boyfriend. He moves south, leaving all his family and friends behind, alienating them. Only to do – exactly nothing. He doesn’t talk to Eddie’s roommate, doesn’t ask questions, no he even actively avoids talking to him. He doesn’t read Eddie’s pile of notes, no he locks them away, even thinking about throwing them out of the window.On a side note the writing is terrible. It’s unnecessarily excessive and pretentious on top. Like “Their delicate dance of implication and tradition remained alien to him, and it pulled the air out of the room.” What? This is a story about a bunch of frat boy mischiefs and assholes! That doesn't fit.In summary, all of this is bleak and boring. I really don’t understand the hype about this book. DNF.
4224751455	4.5This book was so good! Beautifully written, atmospheric, spooky, with a really well-crafted mystery… My only complaint is this: I wanted more romance! Andrew and Sam had such great chemistry, it seemed like a bit of a waste to not develop it further. But still, I enjoyed this very much. Fans of southern gothic will definitely appreciate this one.
3480778552	2.5 stars. I tried and tried and tried and tried but this was killing my excitement to read. I think if a dark academia book is going to satisfy me, it needs to start with characters I like or care about. I’m so sorry, I wanted to love this with my whole heart.
4268944133	This was an enjoyable, creepy and emotional read. If I were 20 while reading this it would’ve been 5 stars. Usually I have no problem adjusting to the thoughts, attitudes and actions of protagonists of all different ages but somehow I had a hard time doing so with this book.
6673734236	You know that Barbara Kruger quote?"You construct intricate rituals which allow you to touch the skin of other men"Sigh. Yeah.If you’re a sucker for a tragic closet case and gays that won’t stay buried; first of all, great taste. Second of all, read this book!⚜ The Setting The mesh of dark academia, southern gothic, and no-good boys in fast cars? Whew! I’m not even a fan of the whole ‘bad boy’ trope, and I could take or leave dark academia- but this got me! It just complimented the themes of mourning, class, masculinity, and queer longing so perfectly. Such an interesting setting to get immersed in. ⚜ Characterization I loved the way the relationships in this book were handled. Andrew’s character growth was so, so satisfying. It was written in such subtle, perfect, creeping way that felt so natural to me. Do you realize how satisfying it was to notice that a character’s taste in coffee has changed? I’ve been looking for a book that really scratches that character driven itch for me- and Summer Sons was it. (Doesn’t hurt that I was also really digging the plot.)And the romance. Ouch. While it wasn’t particularly groundbreaking- you bet your ass I was kicking my goddamn feet whenever Andrew got a text from Sam. And whatever Andrew and Eddie had going on. Oh my god. Just see the Barbara Kruger quote.(I need to add- I hate pet names in books. They’re always terrible, they never fit the character, and they’re always forced. But. I think this book gets a pass.)⚜ The Bad The only real issue I had with this story was the ending. It got very dramatic, very quickly, in a way that felt a little more theatrical than the rest of the book. I wouldn't say it ruined the experience, but I guess I just wasn’t expecting the tone shift. ⚜ Final Notes Thank you to my friends who had to deal with all of my ‘No, he thinks he’s straight.’ and ‘He’s obsessed.’ and ‘Look at the text he sent him!!’ and thank you to my notes, the details of which I will not disclose as they are deranged.
3855847224	4.5⭐ Thank you so much to Tor for providing an e-arc copy of this. All thoughts and opinions are still my own!Content Warnings: Suicide, Self Harm (on page graphic descriptions of cutting), Substance abuse, Drunk driving, Homophobic slurs, Blood/Gore, Death, Grief, Mentions of slavery (and part of the story takes place on a plantation), Racism, Graphic injury and violenceI am completely shook over how much I fell for this dark, eerie story.This is one of those books that completely absorbs you and leaves you thinking about the story long after you put it down. This book is said to be dark, gothic southern paranormal and that definitely sums it up perfectly. You follow the main character as he returns to Tennessee for grad school in the wake of his best friends death. But it he figuratively - and literally - haunted by his friend's death. This is definitely more on the speculative side than fantastical (so don't expect any hard explanations of the paranormal aspects) and I loved the ominous tone the unexplained paranormal aspect brought. This heavily explores grief and personifies the main characters grief in the form a haunting. It's dark and heavy and difficult to read at times but I thought it was handled to perfection. Andrew is so frustrating at times because he gets so wrapped up in his own loss that he loses sight of those around him. But it also such a realistic depiction of grief.I also loved that this explored sexuality in an older cast of characters. This entire book is queer and full of queer characters, but Andrew is in his 20s and still unsure of his identity. I really appreciated getting to see this arc explored in someone older (especially as someone who didn't embrace their queer-ness until their 30s).Also, Lee Mandelo's writing blew me away. This is stunningly written. The prose, the pacing, the descriptions, everything was so fantastically crafted. I'm obsessed with this book and it's characters and I honestly cannot wait to devour whatever Mandelo writes next.Audiobook note: if you love accents in your audiobooks, the narrator has a southern accent and does an amazing job bring this whole story to life!
4290373467	drag racing, dark academia, ghost stories? fuck yes.
4698867774	It was easier to swallow, when someone else provided for himWhat a spooky, queer, testosterone-filled book.
4471952938	UPDATE UPON REREAD: I listened to the audiobook at the beginning of the year and then reread it in physical form. I fucking love this book. Upon reread, I was able to really dig into things that I didn't notice on my first read. I knew it was really queer then, but I really got a good look at how the queerness is woven into everything: into Andrew's perspective and so many themes. (view spoiler)[The relationship between Eddie and Andrew is queer all the way down; not just queer as in not heterosexual, but queer as in defying labels -- ineffable -- both before and especially now that Eddie is a ghost. Looking at the haunting and lore around the curse, there is a lot (from my perspective - though I am not an expert on the genre) that gets turned on its head in a very queer way. Andrew is brought into the curse through his connection with Eddie, not through marriage or blood relation, but through a horrific twist on the idea of a curse passed on through bloodline. Another queer element is the blending of so many lines (making Andrew's surname - Blur - more than apt). Lines of relationships, of living and dead, of Andrew and Eddie themselves, of the themes of haunting and heartbreak and desire and suppression, of dream and wake -- I could probably go on but I will stop there. (hide spoiler)] There's so much about this that is devastatingly tender while also being raw and terrifying and unsettling as hell. There are so many details about this that I don't know how to articulate. But I am so glad that I did a reread and I already have other things that I plan on looking for when I reread it again. ORIGINAL REVIEW: I was fairly excited about this when it came out -- the promise of queer spooky shit that reviewers I trust were raving about. But I was concerned because this isn't a genre I frequently read. It absolutely did not disappoint.The first couple of hours, I was undecided. The characters seemed brash and unlikable (and the cheesy, wavering southern accent from the audiobook reader did not help). But at a certain point, the depth of the characters and the layers that were created in the story started to show and I was completely hooked. This is a spooky southern dark academia, certainly. But I didn't expect such rich things happening with the characters and other parts of the story. This is full of messy people making questionable decisions. That raw vulnerability of messy queers in lit fic was absolutely here, and more than that, it was tied in thematically. The specter is what you discover it is through the lore, but it is also very much the ghost of permanently unrequited love -- a shadow, the result of (of course) death, but also of the unspoken, the unlived -- the fear and dissociation of homophobia by way of toxic masculinity. This hits on other themes as well through the story, looking at corruption in academia and of wealth that is accumulated through death -- the (tied) legacies of white supremacy looking at old wealthy families and university. There is so much more I'm sure I could unpack given the time. Looking at the characters, while they were certainly unlikable, they were complex and that built as the story goes on. I ended up really loving them and wanting to dig more into their characters and know what makes them tick (which often resulted in me pausing to speculate on what their birth charts probably looked like). This is absolutely a book I intend on rereading and annotating, so maybe I'll wind up with an essay about it eventually, but this should be more than enough until then. This was such an incredible read and definitely surpassed my expectations.
3803100164	I’m being generous by giving this 2 stars. This could’ve been so much more—instead it’s like the literary equivalent of a wet fart. It fails as a horror novel, and a mystery, and a gothic. The character work is almost nonexistent, the “mystery” isn’t very involving, and what was that climax? I wanted to like this, and I’m happy for those who did. But it wasn’t for me. Also, this was nominated in the horror category of the GR awards last year?! Lol.
3800177050	I’m so bummed by this one. I really wanted to love it more than I did. Don’t get me wrong, the southern gothic vibes and the whole queer questioning and identity was great, but I really wasn’t interested in the fast cars and fast life aspect of this story.Thank you tordotcom for providing a review copy. This did not influence my review. All opinions are my own.
6841815591	Couldn’t put the book down. Murder mystery paired with ghostly curses? Yes. This is the second in a row of MESSY gay relationships and I’m loving this trend. More pls.
6069435759	one of my instagram friends said that this was her favourite book and i would just like to ask if she is okay? unfortunately not my cup of tea but i am happy for everyone who was able to enjoy it
6829162316	4,5 ⭐️Spooky perfection.
5736217472	My new favorite genre: Depressed southern gays get haunted and solve a murder instead of getting therapy. I wish I could put my adoration for this novel into eloquent words that would do it justice, but I genuinely have been left speechless by this. I love supernatural thrillers and this one was done right.
