214470405	‘To go wrong in one's own way is better then to go right in someone else's.’I have been giving a lot of thought to this novel lately. Despite the three years* that have gone by since reading Crime and Punishment—three years in which I’ve read some outstanding literature, joined Goodreads and written just over 100 reviews of the books I’ve journeyed through—Dostoevsky’s novel still resides on it’s throne as one of my personal favorite novels. Top 2 for sure along with Winterson’s The Passion which rotates with this or depending on the wave of drunk I’m riding when asked. No other web of words, brushstrokes or music melody has ever struck me so deeply and consumed me so completely as this book did. The author’s collection of works as a whole has left such a mark on my soul that I felt it necessary to permanently affix his likeness on my arm. Over a century has passed since its initial publication, yet Dostoevsky’s message is still as poignant today as it was when it was first inked onto paper. Crime and Punishment features an immensely engaging blend of intrigue; philosophy; political, social, moral and religious commentary, that all thread together to create a masterpiece of literature that captures the deep, raw core of the human condition when it is at it’s most gruesome and vulnerable. The exquisite literary genius of the novel evoked a strong emotional resonance in me and the timing of my reading was just right to forever wed me to my love of books.Initially envisioned as two separate novels, one following the inner turmoil of a murderer and the other chronicling the melancholic destruction of a family due to a flighty, alcoholic patriarch, Dostoevsky deftly weaves together a multitude of unforgettable characters as they interplay through their tangle of plotlines. There are some incredible scenes that will forever haunt and delight me in my memory, such as the narrow escape from the scene of the crime which had me holding my breath in anxious anticipation, the darkly comical disaster of the funeral feast, or the emotionally charged and grim meeting between Dunya and the vile Svidrigaïlov. Each character is carefully balanced with their foil, each character is written with their own unique style of speech and language, and the novel seems to tie every thread together with such perfection and care as it churns forward, raining destruction on the lives of it’s characters to bring them toward their own personal redemption or demise. This was a book that I was unable to put down as the words flowed from their pages to deep within my heart. Dostoevsky brilliantly straps the reader to the emotional states of his characters and is able to create seamless transitions between scenes or from the minds of one character to the next by riding the wings of an emotion. Most often this emotion is guilt, and the murder scene and it’s feverish follow-up is so expertly crafted that the reader feels they must share in Raskolnikov’s guilty burden. During the course of reading this book, I was overwhelmed by a crushing sense of guilt that was disconnected to any of my own actions. Yet, had police officers confronted me at any given moment, I would have held out my hands in surrender since I was so burdened by the guilty residue of the novel. What further linked me to the book was Raskolnikov’s illness following his crime. Maybe it wasn’t the novel taking root in my soul, perhaps it was due to the cold fall weather that was creeping in at the time, or perhaps it was due to my lack of sleep and early rising to embark on 10-12hr shifts in an unheated factory where I would work away amidst a cloud of aluminum dust, but I felt feverish and ill alongside Raskolnikov and his fever dreams. I don’t think I felt well again until after finishing the book.I believe I read Crime and Punishment at the ideal moment in my life. I had spent the summer going through several of Dostoevsky’s other novels and falling madly in love with his writing. Then my whole life was uprooted. At the time I began C&P, I had moved across the state away from all my friends, family, and everything I knew and recognized, to live in Holland with my brand new baby daughter and work in a factory that could easily serve for a modern day sequel to Sinclair’s The Jungle. Looking back, I think I can see why I so easily soaked up Raskolnikov’s feelings. Dostoevsky shows how we are a product of our choices, and it is how we deal with our consequences that makes us who we are. I was placed in the new situation because of choices I had made, like choosing to skip class to smoke and read by the river, and Raskolnikov was faced with the guilt of his own actions. It was the most dramatic shift in my life and I am not a person who enjoys change, yet here I was without a familiar face and nobody to talk to. Crime and Punishment was there in my hand every morning and night as I walked between my home and car, like a friend holding my hand to comfort and encourage me in my exhaustion. It rode shotgun on my hour commutes like a faithful companion, and was the friendly face in which I could take refuge in on my breaks. When stripped of all I knew, there was literature to keep me sane and give me something to hold on to as my world spiraled out of control around me (my daughter was also a tether of sanity for me, but fatherhood was still new and intimidating at the time). Dostoevsky and his beautiful words became my friend and my passion, and in my solitude (because, let’s face it, I was very much an oddball in that factory and it took awhile to find my place there) I plunged myself deep into books, something I am very thankful for and feel that all the strangeness and loneliness of the existence is washed away by the glow I feel from grappling with my favorite authors. Then I discovered Goodreads and you all became incredibly dear to me. I don’t think I would have survived my time in that dark pit without you all, so, from the bottom of my heart, thank you.I apologize that this isn’t really much of a review, I’m very excited for this review, as it was seeing this GR friend—one of which I hold in the highest regard and am always incredibly impressed by—reading Crime and Punishment that brought back a flood of memories of my times with the book as if I were Proust with his madeleines. I highly recommend this novel, and firmly stand by my choice of it as my favorite. Recently, I had to make a list for work of my top 5 favorite books, which was difficult to do, damn near impossible, but I realized how simple it was to put a book down in the #1 slot. I have read some incredible books since, Hunger (my love of which stems from the similarities to Dostoevsky I noticed in the book), Gravity’s Rainbow, or To the Lighthouse to name a few, yet nothing has ever left as deep of an impact on me as a reader and as a human being as this book. This is a fantastic book about the human spirit, about our deepest, darkest impulses, and shows that our own inner consciousness can dish out a far greater punishment than any legal system can. Now I need to sleep and sober up.5/5*It has now been fourteen years since I've read this novel and I remember it less as a book I once read but as a moment in my life I once lived. When I read C&P, admittedly at the right time for such an excursion of thought, it was like a companion that went along with me on a new adventure in what was a seemingly empty and lonely landscape, a friend that chatted with me throughout the day, a book that shared my emotional state with me for better or for worse. I feel like I entered this book as much as it entered me and I'm not entirely sure what I mean by that but I know that I mean it. All I can say is that eight years later no book has ever meant as much to me as this book did and I feel it more as a moment in the timeline of my life than a book upon my shelf.‘ I did not bow down to you, I bowed down to all the suffering of humanity.’
3269207126	Well, what’s a global pandemic for if you don’t read the stuff you think you really ought to have read by now. Although I hope this strange circumstance will not result in me referring to Fyodor Dostoyevsky as The Corona Guy.Those yet to read this towering inferno of literature may wish to know what’s in the nearly 700 pages, so here is a scientific analysis :WHAT HAPPENS IN CRIME AND PUNISHMENTLong conversations between people who could talk the hind legs off a donkey: .....................53%People going mad and running about wildly or quietly chewing the wallpaper in their tiny room : .........11%People being in debt :.................. 41.7%People being unsteady on their legs due to vast consumption of vodka :.................... 51%People being ill (physical) :.................... 34%People being ill (mental) :...…...…...…...……37%People contemplating suicide :...………………19%People enjoying a pleasant stroll in the countryside : .....0%People having a friendly chat over a cup of coffee :... 0.03%Men figuring they can force a poor woman to marry them :.....……...……………. 36%Women being terrified :...…...……………..………………. 39%Horses being beaten :...……………...…..……...…...……...……... 2%Nothing exciting happening :...……...……...………….. 0%This all adds up to more than 100%. That is because C&P is a very excessive novel. It has more than 100% inside it.INTERVIEW WITH F DOSTOYEVSKY, 18 March 1867FD : You see, in my books...the numbers all go to eleven. Look...right across the board. V. M Vorshynsky: Ahh...oh, I see.... FD : All other novelists, they only go up to 10. But I go up to 11.V. M Vorshynsky:: Does that mean you have more emotion in your books ?FD: Well, it's one whole notch more, isn't it? It's not ten. You see, most...most novelists, you know, they don’t know eleven exists. I get my characters all the way to ten with their emotional situations, and then...push over the cliff. See? V. M Vorshynsky: Put it up to eleven. FD: Eleven. Exactly. One louder.And it’s really true. If they are not about to jump into a river, they are going to fall in love with a prostitute, or they are going to get roaring drunk because they have fallen in love with a prostitute and will later jump into a river.CAN WE GET SLIGHTLY MORE SERIOUS PLEASEC&P surprised me. It was like a Dardenne Brothers movie with the camera tight up to Raskolnikov nearly the whole time, and the action shown in detail almost hour by hour over a couple of weeks. Yes it’s a whole lot about th psychological disintegration of this arrogant twerp who thinks he might be some kind of extraordinary person destined to improve the human race by sheer power of his brainwaves & so therefore is justified in bashing in the head of some horrible old woman pawnbroker to steal her money and kickstart his wonderful career. And bash in the brains of her sister who unfortunately comes in the door at the wrong moment. Bad timing.But it seemed to me that at least half of C&P was all about the horrible powerlessness of women and how they are forced into marriages which are no more than licenced prostitution. An antidote to Jane Austen, indeed. And it was about how the arrogant twerp murderer can also be a guy who perceives this injustice and wants to revolutionise society. And to do that he starts by bashing in the brains of two women. So you see this is a psychological minefield we are in. Like Macbeth and An American Tragedy by Dreiser the murder is contemplated beforehand, then committed, then acts like acid on the mind of its perpetrator, and the reader is along for the excruciating ride.Thre are hundreds of connections that trigger like flashing synapses as you go through this big ass book… Freud, Leopold and Loeb, the philosophy of the Nazi Party, Camus, Beckett… I do admit that there are probably three windbags too many in C&P and I could think of snipping a chapter here and a chapter there to get the whole thing down to a tight 500 pages of ranting and caterwauling. But all in all, this novel rides all over you like an out of control ox cart & will leave you gasping and discombobulated.Conclusion : excellent pandemic reading
153232858	I've come to the conclusion that Russian door-stoppers might just be where it's at. "It" here meaning general awesomeness that combines history, philosophy and readability to make books that are both thought-provoking and enjoyable. Up until this point, Tolstoy had basically taught me everything I knew about nineteenth century Russian society and its people. By that, I mean that everything I knew was about the drama and scandals of the Russian aristocracy. The difference here is that Dostoyevsky took me on an educational - but also gripping - journey around the backstreets and drinking dens of St Petersburg. He showed me the nitty gritty details of life in Russia for those less fortunate - drunks, prostitutes, the poor - and he painted a very vivid portrait of this time and culture. Raskolnikov is a great protagonist; he really is. His head is one messed-up place and he constantly struggles with what he believes in, his conscience, and his desire to get what he wants. The reader is pulled so deep inside the dark depths of his mind that it's hard to avoid becoming completely absorbed in the story. He is at times nasty, at others funny, and at others pitiful. Dostoyevsky has created one extremely well-rounded and complex character. Crime and Punishment shows the human capacity for evil, but also for shame and remorse. And this latter is the real "punishment" for Raskolnikov when he is driven near to insanity by his guilt.I don't really know how best to fully articulate my feelings for Crime and Punishment. I don't give many five star ratings and I rarely feel this strongly about what I've read. I actually had a dream about it! Speaking of dreams, I want to use this one example of Dostoyevsky's ability to engage the reader so thoroughly: I read one particular scene in the book that made me seriously distressed. I was furious, on the verge of tears, and like a child who wants to jump inside the TV to make everything better... and then Raskolnikov awakes to discover it was just a dream. I swear that my sigh of relief fully eclipsed his! But that's how far I was drawn into this world, how much I really cared about it. That doesn't happen often.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
234145973	What can I add to 7000+ reviews (at the time I write)? I think this book is fascinating because of all the topic it covers. Like the OJ trial, it is about many important interconnected things and those things remain important today, even though this book was originally published in 1865.Sure, it has a lot about crime and punishment. But also insanity and temporary insanity, the latter a legal plea that could be entered in Russia of the mid-1800's. It's about guilt and conscience, long before Freud. In fact, this book was written at a time when psychological theories were coming into vogue. It's about false confessions. It's about poverty and social class and people who rise above their class and people who fall from the class they were born into. It's about the wild dreams and the follies of youth.There is also mention of many social theories that were in vogue at that time, so, for example, if you want to, you can click on Wikipedia to find out about "Fourier's system" and his phalansteres. There is attempted rape, blackmail, child labor, child prostitution, child marriage and child molestation. There is discussion of marrying for money. There are ethnic tensions between Russians and the Germans of St. Petersburg. Should you give to charity or should you give to change the conditions that caused the poverty? Like me, you may have thought that was a modern idea, but here it is, laid out in 1865. There's a lot about alcoholism. Stir in a cat-and-mouse detective and a bit of Christian redemption. No wonder this is a classic.
16025139	I basically had to stop drinking for a month in order to read it; my friends no longer call. But it's great.
6340082585	I finally said my goodbyes to this book. It was the best piece i've ever read.
570026	Instead of reading this book, drink vodka in a dark room and think depressing thoughts. That will give you about the same experience and you'll have a better time.
3873422868	so basically I ate
766318778	با اینکه این کتاب رو خیلی وقت پیش خوندم، هنوز که هنوزه، به نظرم شاهکار تمام اعصاره و هیچ کتابی روی دستش نیست. و جالب اینه که این کتاب، اول پاورقی روزنامه بوده و بعداً مستقلاً چاپ شده. حالا مقایسه کنید بین پاورقی های روسی و پاورقی های وطنی!داستايوسكى و نيچهمن تا مدت های مدید، فکر می کردم و کاملاً از این بابت مطمئن بودم که داستایوسکی، نظریات راسکلنیکف رو از حرف های نیچه اقتباس کرده. حدس می زدم که اون دوره حرف های نیچه باب طبع جوان های تحصیل کرده بوده و راسکلنیکف نماینده ی این قشر. این که گروهی از مردم راهبر هستن و گروهی "سوسک"، اگه راهبرها برای پیش بردن بشریت به سمت کمال والاتر اخلاق "سوسک" ها رو زیر پا له نکنن، "سوسک" ها کل عالم رو میگیرن.میشه حدس زد که چقدر، چقدر تعجب کردم وقتی دیدم داستایوسکی مقدم بر نیچه بوده. میشه حدس زد که چقدر شیفتگی م نسبت به داستایوسکی و عظمت فکرش بیشتر شد.دلبرکان غمگین منسه شخصیت از این رمان رو عاشقانه می پرستم. هر چند شاید معادلشون توی رمان های دیگه پیدا بشه، ولی توی این رمان به اوج کمال رسیدن.سونیااول از همه، تأکید میکنم، اول از همه، سونیا. من دیوانه وار شیفته ی سونیام. به نظرم هر مردى رؤياى يه سونيا رو در سر مى پرورونه و پنهانى عاشق اونه: زنى بى نهايت ساده دل و بى نهايت پاک كه به رغم همه ى بدى هايى كه آدم كرده، عشق و گذشتش رو از آدم دریغ نکنه. که آدم بدونه در سخت ترین طوفان هاى روحى هم میتونه به آغوشش پناه ببره.راسکلنیکفدر مرتبه ی دوم. مظهر تمام و کمال روشنفکر پوچگرا که به نظرم مهم ترین تیپ دو سه قرن اخیر (مخصوصاً در اروپا) بوده و هست. به نظرم آدم تا مثل راسکلنیکف نباشه، نباید این رمان رو بخونه و اگه بخونه، شاید خیلی رمان رو نفهمه. مخصوصاً شدت عطش و نیاز این پوچگرا، به سونیای پاک رو.بازرس پورفیرینهایتاً بازرس پلیس، که بیشتر روانشناسه تا بازرس و به خاطر همین دوستش دارم. به خاطر باهوش بودنش و موش و گربه بازی کردنش با راسکلنیکف و به خاطر شیوه ای که میخواد باهاش راسکلنیکف رو به دام بیندازه.به نظرم یکی از بهترین ضدقهرمان های آثار کلاسیکه و با معادل فرانسویش، بازرس ژاور، قابل قیاس نیست.
24704649	Oh, Fyodor.Who else could keep me up and awake night after night, even though I promise myself every morning to go to bed at a decent hour?Who else can create such authentic human emotions that I feel I'm experiencing all of them myself?Who else would make me subject my kids to dinners of grilled cheese sandwiches, scrambled eggs, or frozen waffles just to spend more time with you?There is no one else. Only you.
2313829910	العظَمة هي أن تكتب رواية بلغت التسعمائة صفحة، وتجعل القارئ يشعر وهو يقرأها كأنه يقرأ رواية صغيرة الحجم تجري صفحاتها بسرعة مذهلة بين يديه، ولا يشعر معها لا بالوقت ولا بالمكان الذي يقرأ فيه. المهارة هي أن تكتب رواية مزدحمة بالشخصيات ذات الأسماء عسيرة النطق، ولا يشعر القارئ للحظة واحدة بالتوهان والتشتت وهو يقرأ. والعبقرية، كل العبقرية، أن تلخص زبدة الرواية وسر عظمتها في آخر عشرين صفحة، ليكونوا أعظم ما فيها. والكاتب، الذي يجمع بين العبقرية والمهارة والعظمة، هو ساحر، ولذلك، دوستويفسكي ببساطة شديدة، أثبت لي في هذه الرواية، أنه ساحر. وأنت تقرأ هذه الرواية، وبدون أي نية للحذلقة والتعالي، رغمًا عنك ستشعر في البداية بكثيرٍ من الندم على أن أجّلت هذا اللقاء أكثر من مرة، إما لرهبةٍ من دوستويفسكي نفسه، وإما لرهبةٍ من حجم الرواية. وبعد مائة صفحة أو يزيد، سيزول الندم وتحل مكانها المتعة. بعد انتهاء الجزء الأول ستشعر – للحظات – بأن كل ما قرأته في حياتك قبل هذا الجزء وحده يوضع في كفة، وهذا الجزء يوضع في كفة أخرى تمامًا. ستدفعك مفاجأة نهاية الجزء الأول لالتهام الخمسين صفحة الأولى من الجزء الثاني على الأقل من شدة الترقب، ويمكنني أن أقول، بدايةً من هذه اللحظة، أنك صرتً أسيرًا لصفحات هذه الرواية، ففجأة، ستؤجل مذاكرتك، ستؤخر نومك أو تقلل ساعاته، ستفُضل الذهاب بالمواصلات لمكانٍ اعتدت الذهاب اليه مشيًا كي تختصر الوقت وتجد في نهاية اليوم بعض الدقائق لالتهام القليل من الصفحات، ستصبح هذه الرواية محور حياتك فجأة، وستنتهي فجأة، لتكتشف أن الأيام التي قضيتها معها مرت كأنها ساعات. هذه الرواية، بها من العمق النقسي ما سيجعل خلايا عقلك تنتشي، ومن الشخصيات الفريدة من سيصل بها الأمر أن تزورك في أحلامك. نعم، أنت في هذه الرواية تشارك بطلها راسكولينيكوف كل تفاصيل حياته، أنت معه وهو مستيقظ، وهو نائم ويحلم، وهو يهذي، معه في لحظات عقله وجنونه، معه في الصمت والكلام، تشاركه حواراته مع غيره وحواراته مع نفسه، أنت تعيش مع شخصٍ كما لم تعش مع أحد في حياتك، أمك وأبيك أنفسهم لم تعش معهم لحظات بلغت من الدقة والعمق كتلك اللحظات مع راسكولينيكوف التي لن تفارق ذاكرتك طويلًا، جدًا. في بداية هذه الرواية تجد الجريمة، جريمة قتل، دوافعها الظاهرية هي الانتقام من الاستغلال والظلم، الانتقام لأجل الإنسانية. ستكتشف بعد ذلك أن هذه لم تكن الجريمة الوحيدة، ستجد غيرها المزيد من الجرائم التي يعاني منها البشر ولا نلتفت لها لأننا لا نعتبرها أصلا جريمة. الفقر جريمة، الجوع جريمة، الحرمان من الحب جريمة، وحب من لا يستحق الحب جريمة، الذل جريمة، والضعف جريمة، والاستسلام للمرض جريمة، والغضب جريمة، والنسيان جريمة، وعدم قراءة هذه الرواية، أيضًا.. جريمة، وستسأل: تُرى، لأجل أي جريمة من هذه الجرائم كان اسم الرواية " الجريمة" والعقاب؟. العقاب هو أنك ستفقد القدرة على الكلام!، نعم هذا هو عقاب دوستويفسكي لي ولك، وللبشرية. سترتبك ارتباكًا لا مثيل له مع النهاية وقد شعرت أنك عاري الجسد، وأن روحك تطفو على السطح كأنها تغتسل من شوائبها، ستأخذ شهيقًا طويلًا يتسرب هواؤه لكل خلية بجسمك، كأنك تولد من جديد، ستمر عليك ساعات، وربما أيام، تحاول أن تسترجع كل تفاصيل الحكاية من أولها لآخرها، لتكتشف الرسائل والدروس التي حُملت بها السطور، فتكتشف أن قراءة واحدة لهذه الرواية لا تكفي، ولا قراءة ثانية ولا ثالثة، وأنك ربما تحتاج أن تقرأها بتتابع معلوم وعلى فترات مدروسة طوال حياتك!، أنا لا أبالغ والله، ولا أهذي من فرط الانتشاء الذي أشعر به بعد النهاية، أنا أحكي ما أشعر به حاليًا، وربما تثبت الأيام خطئي أو صوابي لي أنا قبل أن تثبت لك. بدأت هذه الرواية وأنا على حالةٍ من الخواء الروحي والضعف النفسي لا يعلمها إلا الله، عشت معها أيامًا لن أنساها، ببساطة لأنها، بطريقةٍ ما، عالجت شروخ روحي، وجددت رؤيتي للحياة، أعطتني دروسًا عن نفوس البشر لا أعتقد أن كتب الطب وعلم النفس بقادرة على أن تشرحها بنفس هذه السلاسة والعبقرية، ووهبتني، بكل حب، علاقاتٍ مع بشرٍ، ليسوا خيالًا على الورق، إنما اعتبرهم من لحمٍ ودم. صوفيا وراسكولينيوف، رازوميخين وبورفيري، وكاترينا، وغيرهم، شخصيات سأظل أحكي عنها كأني عاشرتها زمنًا، على أمل أن أعود لألتقي بهم، وأسمع حكايتهم، مستقبلًا، مرة تلو الأخرى، دون أن أمِلَ. تمت
500798682	I have few Dostoevsky fans in my friends list so my opinions here might not go over so well. I have been wanting to read this classic for a while and I had high expectations, but they were not met. I liked it okay but I found it to be a bit slow and drawn out. Ultimately not a whole lot happens in the story, but it takes 500 pages to get there. In fact, there are probably as many plot points in the 15 page epilogue as in the rest of the book.However, despite this, I can say that parts of the journey were pretty good. Every few chapters there would be a high intensity event that would draw me in. In fact, if you graphed this book out with the high points followed by long lulls, it would probably look like an EKG. Also, it was interesting to take in the classic Russian writing. Whether or not it was always super exciting, I did enjoy the feel of the narrative from the classic Russian perspective.In summary, I would not recommend this as highly as some other classics, but if you are hardcore into completing your classic reading list, you can't miss this one.
4569763534	This is perhaps the best novel of all time.
1416759853	راسكلنكوف الذي قتل ليؤكد ذاته..ليثبت لنفسه انه من تلك الفئة الاستثنائية من البشر ممن لهم كل الحق في تحدي المجتمع و القانون .. راسكلنكوف هو احد ضحايا نيتشه اذن تبدأ الرواية بشكل حماسي مبالغ فيه بالجريمة فبعد ان اعتصر الفقر الشاب المثقف. .يقرر ان المجتمع لن يخسر شيئا بمقتل المرابية العجوز ..و لكنه بمقتلها سينفذ نفسه و أسرته واحباؤه الذين يخسرهم تباعا لقلة المال. ...و بعد الجريمة يغرقنا ديستوفسكي في العقابو كاغلب رواياته نرى: السقوط ثم الخلاص للافلات من اللعنة..سيغرقك النقاد في كلام كثير عن الحلم النابليوني ..وان الرواية نبوءة بالثورة البلشفية منذ 1866 و ..من المؤكد أن كل دارس للاداب لابد و حتما عليه ان يقرأها. .فهي أفضل ماتم كتابته عن عذاب الضمير. .و تحمل عواقب أفعال لا يتحملها جهازك العصبيو لكني للاسف اعترف أنني لم أحبها حقاً...اكملتها. .فبها خطا تشويقيا بوليسيا. .لكنها كئيبة حقا إلى ابعد الحدود..كئيبة لحدود عبثية احيانا بالطبع ملايين يختلفون معى و يفهمونها حقا ..و لكن انا ساظل اتسائل كيف اتعاطف مع بطل يثبت لنفسه انه قادر على فعل كل ماهو قاسي و منفر ..مادام يعتقد أنه صواب؟
22864033	My star rating is purely subjective and means only what GR says it means: I didn't like it. It didn't mean anything to me, sadly, and I didn't even find it to be an interesting story. I'm not saying it's a terrible book; in fact, I'd be very interested to hear what others think (reviews are a bit light for this book here I see). First, I have a confession to make: I got two thirds of the way through and skimmed the rest. Well, worse than that: I flipped through and got the gist, but such is the way it's written you can't even skim. I just really had to put the book to rest, and it made me feel miserable thinking about making myself keep reading it. Reading should never make you miserable, so I did something I rarely ever do, and it nags at me but, well, there you have it.The premise sounds interesting, and I had high hopes it would be one that would suck me in and captivate me. It's not that I had particularly high expectations - I didn't really have any expectations, though I thought it might be heavy on the intellectual side of things - but it was apparent from fairly early on that it wasn't going to be my kind of book.It's Petersburg and a young student, Raskolnikov, is pawning his only valuables to an old crone, Alyona Ivanovna, who lives in a small apartment with her sister Lizaveta. He hasn't been able to afford to go to uni in several months, and his dress and manner makes him seem even lower class than he is. In desperation he hatches a plan to murder Alyona and rob her. He carries this out, killing not just her but her simple-minded sister who returns home unexpectedly, and in his fear and haste flees the scene with only some pawned trinkets and a small pouch.His guilt manifests itself in fever and delirium, and he behaves very strangely thereafter. His friend and fellow student, Razumikhin, puts up with an awful lot and generously gives his time and efforts to help Raskolnikov; his mother, Pulcheria Alexandrovna and his sister, Dunechka, come to town to prepare for Dunya's marriage to an odious man; and Raskolnikov becomes somewhat obsessed with the family of a poor alcoholic who dies early on, in particular his eldest daughter Sonya, who had to become a prostitute in order to make some money for her family.There's a lot of twoing and froing, a lot of agonising on Raskolnikov's part, and a lot of exclaiming. I wouldn't even have minded but Raskolnikov became such a bore, I didn't even want to slap, I just wanted to ignore him. It comes down mostly to the way it was written, which I didn't care for and which made the book a real slog.I know this is some kind of work of genius, but if that's true, then I just felt stupid. It all seemed pretty obvious to me. No doubt if I made the effort I could see something special here, but it's like The Red and the Black - other people find the psychological melodrama truly fascinating, but to me, it's just melodrama, which I loathe. There's also no mystery, and not much suspense. There's a somewhat clever police inspector investigating the murder, but the game of cat-and-mouse the blurb enticed me with fell flat pretty quickly, and there was nothing left to hold me. The blurb describes the book as "a preternaturally acute investigation of the forces that impel a man toward sin, suffering and grace." Uh huh. You can tell I'm really impressed can't you? It reads more like an account of a man going mad and being really self-centred, but after my sorry lack of appreciation for the equally masterful The Red and the Black, is it any surprise that I didn't like this book at all? If you're looking for a good story, this isn't it.
1981487422	Here's another review as I go! I suppose I just can't let go of Dostoyevsky's squalid, bleak, complicated, and spiritually vexing world, so despite having just finished The Brothers Karamazov, I find myself plunging headlong into Crime and Punishment, a book I last read 20 years ago.I'm reading the new Oliver Ready translation, and it's wonderful so far.I can well imagine how shocking this book must have been at the time. It depicts a world where everyone is either taking advantage of someone else or being taken advantage of, where most of the characters are engaged in a mean, petty, and morally bankrupt struggle for survival. Ironically, it's Raskolnikov himself who comes closest to espousing some idealistic notion of virtue among all the squalor, when he criticizes his sister for being engaged to someone she doesn't love, all for the sake of the man's money, with its potential to lift their family out of poverty.***Dostoyevsky is brilliant at depicting a character on the edge--one whose thoughts veer between lucidity and paranoia and whose passions overwhelm him even when he can hardly muster the energy to get off his sofa. What's interesting about his passion is the deep moralism that accompanies it--his sense of the world's injustice, as when he rushes to save Marmeladov, a drunkard who was trampled by a horse, and brings the man to his family and feels sorry for them all as he comforts them and gives them money. You get the sense here of a man who deeply feels all the depravity and injustice of the world, one who can hardly stand it, and yet he's the murderer and perhaps the most depraved one of all. And yet.... Raskolnikov is also quite suspicious of "phonies," to use a Holden Caulfield term, as when he confronts his sister's fiance. Here's another complication in this fascinating character. Is he the most "honest" character in the book? In a way he is, but of course he's hiding the biggest secret. He constantly struggles against his own duplicity and is often on the verge of blurting out his crime. He even does at one point, yet his listener thinks it's a joke, and he plays along, but you can see how the act of dissimulation itself is so painful to him.***When Raskolnikov visits the disgraced Sonya, he becomes strangely Christ-like, kissing her feet and claiming he's bowing "to all human suffering." He seems to take all suffering on his shoulders, especially the suffering of children, as he constantly warns Sonya about what will happen to her young siblings should their mother die. But of course this is all complicated by Raskolnikov's avowed athiesm, which he makes clear to Sonya when she says that God would never let their mother die and leave those young children as defenseless and homeless orphans, and Raskolnikov responds, "almost with a sort of malicious glee," by asking: "What if there is no God?"***There is certainly no romanticizing of poverty here, as we see Katerina Ivanovna literally go mad and die from her circumstances. What a tragic and pathetic scene when, homeless, she drags her young children to the streetcorner, dresses them up like performers, and demands they sing and dance for coins, all the while they're crying and she's yelling and coughing up blood. Raskolnikov's premonitions come true, when he turns to Sonya afterwards and wonders what will happen to the children now.***Raskolnikov, for all his powers of empathy, seems to long for something more--for the power to achieve greatness, to become a great figure of history--and the murder is for him bound up in this quest. He rationalizes that if Napoleon, in order to fulfill his destiny, had to knock off a few lowly people, wouldn't he be justified in doing so? Passages like this presage all sorts of 20th century horrors, and it's fascinating to see them here, spoken by this most complicated character.***Hurtling toward the end now, with Raskolnikov having confessed to a distraught Sonya, and Svidrigailov overhearing from the room next door. Svidrigailov tries to use his knowledge to confront Raskolnikov's sister and get her in his power, claiming he'll take Raskolnikov away with him to America to save him, if only Avdotya will succumb to him. In a scene straight out of a pulp novel, she's shocked and pulls out a revolver and shoots at him as he approaches her, only to graze his head. But he realizes she will never love him, and even after she throws the revolver aside, he allows her to escape.***Some spoilers may follow, but I'll do my best not to give too much away:The fate of Svidrigailov was for me the one false note in the book--the one point where Dostoyevsky took the easy way out. I wasn't at all convinced he'd use the revolver in the way he did, and I felt the author basically wanted this troublesome character out of the way.Otherwise, wow, the ending was just brilliant--the drama of whether Raskolnikov would confess or not was drawn out masterfully. Then, in Siberia, we get what were for me some of the saddest and truest lines of the entire book:"Existence alone had never been enough for him; he'd always wanted more. And perhaps the only reason he'd considered himself a man to whom more was permitted than to others was the very strength of his desires."Only at the end, after a sickness, and Sonya's sickness, does Raskolnikov finally shed the torments of his ambition toward greatness--which in many ways was the driver of his entire crime. He becomes, finally, content, because he finally finds love--real deep spiritual love for this woman who'd given up everything to live near his remote penal colony. Love is what finally transforms him and gives him hope that, after seven more years, he'll be able at last to live.And so ends this amazing journey--one that will remain with me for a long time, one that I'll ponder and dip back into, one that seems so modern and relevant today. In a way it really does presage the entire 20th century, with its exposition of how dreams of greatness can lead to sordid crimes, how greatness is a form of torment and perhaps even a form of demented thinking. I can't help seeing Raskolnikov as a "wanna-be" Stalin, or Hitler, or Mao, or any of those tragically self-aggrandizing men who see crime as simply a means to an end, who believe they're superior beings and are therefore entitled to use "lesser" people to service their own dreams. It's a terrifying mentality, and Dostoyevsky knew it well. If only we'd listened to him.....
4324533994	Certain components resonated but too long-windedCrime and Punishment centers on a student (or former student), Raskolnikov. He is in a dire financial predicament and is forced into pawning his most treasured and sentimental items. Why should the good, kind Raskolnikov suffer while the greedy pawnbroker grows more and more wealthy, profiting off the suffering of the unfortunate? Wouldn’t it be better for Raskolnikov to eliminate the pawnbroker and distribute the riches to the needy?Let’s start with the pros of this book, shall we?Raskolnikov in many ways is a highly relatable character—he considers himself to be a good person who has fallen on tough times, and he is highly attuned to the tragic events happening around him; he doesn’t turn away from the suffering of others, he doesn’t stay out of it. He tries to be the hands and feet of Jesus.This book also has a tremendous number of great quotes, and Crime and Punishment is the definition of a classic—each time the reader could learn something new during each reread.One scene in particular is incredibly moving, a beautiful, thought-provoking scene; it involves Sonia and the 100 ruble note.Now, for the cons……Good grief! The character names were extremely confusing! For example, Raskolnikov is also Rodya, Pyotr Petrovich is also Luzhin, and Sonia is also Sofya Semyonova. Additionally, Razumihin and Raskolnikov, the similar sounding names and length were extremely confusing. Is this a bad translation or is this intentional?Further, this book is rather depressing. This book did not delight my soul—it is a bleak reminder about the depravity of humankind (as if I needed another reminder).And the ultimate crime is that Crime and Punishment is too long-winded. To be clear, the discussion of philosophy can be riveting and important. Can good people do “bad” things? Why are some people exempt from normal standards of behavior? For example, killing people is typically illegal and morally frown upon, but a soldier in war might be expected to kill. It is moral to kill one person to save many? Should we be defined by our occupation or our moral character?But…my gosh! It was overly done. Raskolnikov, Rodya (whatever you are going by these days)—just get on with it! Please move on, one way or another! The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent):Electronic Text – Free through LibbyAudiobook – 1 Audible Credit (Audible Premium Plus Annual – 24 Credits Membership Plan $229.50 or roughly $9.56 per credit)2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta My Bookstore at Pango
3825920089	Cited as one of the supreme achievements in literature, Crime and Punishment is neither about the crime, nor about the punishment, but about the psyche of a criminal. The protagonist wantonly commits an off the cuff murder, without any mortification whatsoever. He is enthralled with the majestic image of a Napoleonic personality who, in the interests of the greater social good, believes that he possesses a moral right to kill. At the same time, he is guilt trapped and tormented by his own act. And mind that, repenting isn't easy for him! He is constantly ashamed of his impropriety and remains delirious. His conscience perpetually forces him to accept the reality of his mediocrity, yet he decides to shelve events and evade the authorities. One of the police officials even suspects him and persuades him to accept the crime while promising for clemency, but he refuses to acknowledge and snubs any leniency offered by the authorities.Only a downtrodden and dispirited prostitute can offer salvation (salvation that can only be found in love ), leaving him off the hook.
4860508825	What zero pussy does to a mf
1081458451	“When reason fails, the devil helps!”They coerced us to read Crime and Punishment at school – we hated the book but were compelled to read it anyway.“The darker the night, the brighter the stars, the deeper the grief, the closer is God!”And it took the years to understand what a great novel it is.One may play God however long but this won’t bring one anywhere near to heaven.
6682199590	2nd Read.When my dad was alive, he had a habit: after finishing a book, he’d place it in 1 of 3 spots - the glass cabinet, the bookshelf, or beside the old magazine pile. I always assumed the ones in the glass cabinet were his most valued. But after he passed, I realized those “treasures” were actually the books he couldn’t understand.I figured this out because, like me, he made notes while reading. If a book was heavily marked at the beginning but blank toward the end, it meant he’d given up halfway.So when I decided to tackle this book that I found in the glass cabinet myself, I started by digging into reviews and articles - trying to get a handle on it before diving in. Honestly, it’s a tough read if your mind wanders even a little.After breathlessly powering through 150 pages, I realized - it’s actually not that hard to understand.It’s a bold story, really. A long, winding psychological debate. In Dostoevsky’s eyes, all the laughter, rage, and drama are just ways to challenge or prove a seemingly insane theory: that humans fall into 2 categories. 1 is exceptional and above the law, free from moral constraints. The other is ordinary, submissive, and just here to “reproduce”.The first kind, in pursuit of greatness, can eliminate any obstacle - no matter how much blood is spilled or how many lives are ruined. The proud, sensitive, and brilliant protagonist, Raskolnikov, kills a “louse of society” to test this theory, and then spirals into guilt and torment. That mental suffering - is the real punishment.Even when he finally decides to confess, he’s not remorseful. He just wants to know if his sister still sees him as proud. So really, what breaks him isn’t the crime - it’s realizing, through his own theory, that he’s just an ordinary guy, not a Napoleon. That bruises his ego.He despises the world, yet can’t separate himself from it - and that contradiction torments him.This book also hints at another kind of crime: 1 that doesn’t involve violence. Those in power can strip away someone’s dignity and life through wealth and influence. Isn’t causing suffering a crime too? Isn’t killing someone’s spirit worse than killing their body? These hidden crimes are everywhere, but because they’re subtle, they’re often ignored. And maybe they’re even more dangerous than the obvious ones.But how many “extraordinary” criminals like Raskolnikov are really out there? When you think about it, he just wanted to pay his tuition. Even if it was to ease his family’s burden, it was still for personal gain. Not much nobler than the depraved guy who ends up taking his own life. Even Napoleon, whom Raskolnikov idolizes, was probably just chasing his own ambition - not trying to uplift humanity. Maybe that’s why Dostoevsky lets both types of criminals - those who act and those who manipulate - end up confessing or dying. Who gets to judge others’ morality? And how do we know our own moral compass is any more righteous?It reminds me of the movie Diary of the Death. The person who gets the notebook can control life and death, and a brilliant student decides to cleanse the world. Same old “playing God” trope - dangerous, just like Raskolnikov. I never understood the ending line: “Now he seems unable to solve anything consciously; he can only feel. Life has replaced reasoning…” But now I wonder - maybe that’s the attitude we should adopt?Reading this also made me think of another extreme idea: why is it okay for humans to kill animals for food and clothing, but killing people for gain is a crime? When the powerful exploit the poor, isn’t that just like humans farming animals to survive? If humans are “higher beings,” then feeding on weaker members of our own kind - does that make us even more advanced? Maybe crime isn’t about morality at all, but about challenging the interests of those in power. If you kill their people, who are they supposed to rule?In the end, morality is the trickiest thing. Everyone has their own standards to feel at peace, and conscience is invisible and intangible. But real punishment is tied to it - it shapes how we act. So where does morality come from? Is it just a dominant idea that evolved with society?Like how hunting geese used to be fine, but now even kids know it’s wrong to harm protected animals or nature. That just shows how morality changes - it doesn’t explain where it comes from. If only we knew what taboos early humans had, we could say morality is a genetic trait. Maybe we’re born with it. People say “you’re worse than an animal” when someone lacks a conscience, which kind of supports that idea. But who’s to say some animals don’t have moral instincts too -like swans that die for love?Lol. Can’t believe I ended up talking biology.1 last thing that really stuck with me was the book’s take on love. Raskolnikov tries to stop his sister from marrying for status, and he says 2 things are essential in a relationship: valuing and respecting each other. To value someone means you care - you think about them, empathize, and look out for them. Respect means loving not just their strengths, but accepting their flaws. Only then can 2 people stick together through thick and thin.Definitely a great book.4.6 / 5 stars
783059120	Ah such beautiful pessimism. I find solace in the Russians, they make death seem like a mild disturbance in the beauty of life. Also their difficult is mere codswallop, the only difficult thing about Russian lit is the names. That's it. Crime and Punishment is the story of a crime and its eventual punishment. That's it. End of review. Or not. It's really the story of a crime, followed by more crime, with a sprinkling of just a bit more crime, and then finished off with a tad of punishment. The main character (I'm literally too lazy to try to type out his name) is a really fascinating character to study. I mean, yeah he's psychologically warped and is a bit "Oh I murdered someone but you should feel sorry for me anyway", however I always seem to find likable traits in even the most monstrous of characters (I still to this day stand up for Humbert Humbert). I just feel that I want to find someone else who's read this and sit down and talk for hours about the main character. To use a Russian motif, he's a matryoshka doll of a character. Like I felt with Emma Bovary in Madame Bovary, Raskolnikov (there I actually typed out his name) is kind of more interesting than the novel itself. Don't get me wrong, this novel is great and all but I just loved Raskolnikov. I could harp on about all the themes and plots in this vast novel but I like keeping my Goodreads reviews brief. Basically, I thought this was hella good and I totally need to read more Dostoyevsky. I highly recommend this novel as well, so read it guys! Don't be scared. Unless of course you've ever killed a pawnbroker in your life. Then I suggest staying well away from this.
3246004682	A genuine masterpiece. Dostoyevsky's damning criticism of Western values ingrained in one of the greatest and earliest detective stories. A work that gets the reader to look at crime, criminality and 'justice', from a much wider and deeper perspective than almost any other written fiction prior to this. A solid Four Star, 9 out of 12.2009 read
1975025074	البشر يصبحون مجانين مسعورين. ولكنهم يعدون أنفسهم على ذكاء عظيم لم يزعمه البشر لأنفسهم في يوم من الأيام قط : فهم يعتقدون بأنهم معصومين من الزلل مبرّؤون من الخطأ. في أحكامهم. في نتائجهم العلمية. في مبادئهم الأخلاقية والدينية. إن قرى ومدنًا وأممًا بكاملها قد سرت إليها هذه العدوى. وفقدت عقلها. أصبح أفرادها يعيشون في حالة جنون. لا يفهم بعضهم عن بعض شيئًا. لا يفهم أحد منهم عن أحد شيئًا : كل واحد يؤمن بأنه الإنسان الوحيد الذي يمتلك الحقيقة. فإذا نظر إلى الآخرين تألم وبكى ولطم صدره وعقف يديه لوعة وحسرة. أصبح الناس لا يستطيعون أن يتفاهموا على ما ينبغي أن يكون شرًا وما ينبغي أن يكون خيرًا.أصبحوا لا يستطيعون لا أن يدينوا ولا أن يبرؤوا. أصبح البشر يقتل بعضهم بعضًا تحت سيطرة بغض لا معنى له وكره لا يُفهم. هم يجتمعون ليؤلفوا جيوشًا كبيرة. فما أن يدخلوا معركة حتى يندلع الشقاق في جميع الصفوف فتنحل الجيوش. ويأخذ الجنود يهجم بعضهم على بعض. فيَعُض بعضهم بعضًا. ويذبح بعضهم بعضًا. ويلتهم بعضهم بعضًا. في المدن يدق ناقوس الخطر طوال النهار. ويُستنفر الشعب. ولكن ما الذي يستنفره ؟ ولماذا يستنفره ؟ ذلك أمر لا يعرف أحد عنه شيئًا. الرعب يستبد بجميع الخلق. المهن العادية هجرها أصحابها. لأن كل واحد يعرض آراءه وإصلاحاته. وما من أحد يستطيع أن يتفق مع أحد.قبل الثورة الروسية بنصف قرن و الروس لا يلبسون إلا أسمالا بالية في كل الروايات من تولستوى إلى تشيكوف ودستيوفيسكى و غيرهم من رواد الأدب الروسى. حساء الكرنب هو الوجبة المسيطرة و الكوبيكا الواحد بعيد المنال. الذل طال طائفة النبلاء و المثقفين و الأراء و المعتقدات الجديدة تعصف بالمجتمع.شاب كما في مراجعة الصديقة النيرة أسرته فلسفة نيتشة و تاريخ نابليون فظن نفسه من طبقة مختلفة من البشر لا تنطبق عليه قوانين المجتمع بل هو من يقرر أي القوانين يسرى عليه و أيها جدير بالإنتهاك.أنه في المقال قسم الناس إلى نوعين : مخلوق "عادي" ومخلوق "غير عادي". وفرض على أولئك أن يعيشوا مطيعين دون أن يعطيهم الحق في تجاوز القانون و خرقه لأنهم كمان ترى مخلوقات عادية, أما الآخرون فإن لهم الحق في إرتكاب الجرائم وخرق كل قانون لمجرد كونهم مخلوقات غير عادية! أليست هذه فكرتك ؟ أم تراني مخطئاًمن روائع الأدب العالمى صدرت في جزئين تجد مراجعتى لهما هنا: الجريمة و العقاب – الجزء الأول الجريمة و العقاب – الجزء الثانى
6414391914	People like to imagine that we live in a world with an innate sense of justice. Our literature says that the good guys win in the end and the bad guys get their comeuppance. But is our world fair, where young girls are forced into prostitution to feed their families, and their parents launder money, where children starve to death... Meanwhile, bad people live happy lives without a thought for those less fortunate.
1349523358	O Caminho da Consciência Será crime matar um ser execrável que explora o seu semelhante?! Uma Sanguessuga! Um Abutre da Miséria alheia! Será crime aniquilá-lo?! Esmagá-lo como o verme que é?! Ou será, simplesmente, uma acção de limpeza social!?Afinal a História da humanidade transborda de Heróis que exterminaram milhares, alegando causas nobres. E não raras vezes, pereceram inocentes como mortes colaterais.Quantos Lideres Históricos chacinaram e trucidaram?! E a História não os absolveu e, mais que isso, jubilou?!...Raskolnikov matou um ser socialmente perverso e outro inocente (uma morte colateral não intencional), e foi castigado!Estaline matou milhões e conquistou um estatuto de popularidade na História da Rússia ao ponto de lhe serem consagrados um museu, uma rua e uma estação ferroviária!Enfim!... Os Desígnios da Justiça são insondáveis!...Porém... há a Consciência, aquela Sentinela implacável que não deixa escapar impunes as lacunas da Justiça!E Raskolnikov tem uma, que... se é certo que o arremessou aos Infernos, também lhe concedeu a Redenção!Á luz da Consciência, Raskolnikov cometeu um crime — por maior que seja a Podridão Social, a Cura correspondente, não passa pela eliminação dos Hediondos. Se enveredássemos por essa via, seríamos... provavelmente... reconduzidos à era "Adão e Eva" 😜A Regeneração Social pressupõe sim, a Regeneração Individual, um processo gradual que tem lugar mediante uma Consciência Purificadora!...E pronto!... Não irei adiantar mais sobre esta obra divinal, mas não resisto a confrontá-la com "A Queda" de Albert Camus:Ambos os livros exploram uma descida aos Infernos, por intermédio da Consciência.Porém, enquanto no primeiro esta é retratada como uma etapa dum processo em curso, no segundo é um fim em si — fica-se continuadamente pelas trevas, sem nunca sair de lá para a Luz!Contudo, é suposto existir um grau de duplicidade no papel da Consciência — é certo que acusa, mas também liberta!E é isso que nos transmite a personagem de Raskolnikov mas não a de Clamence.Dostoievski abre-nos a Porta do Inferno (pirem-se… se puderem…) ao passo que Camus deixa-nos por lá a deambular até às Cinzas!..."Crime e Castigo" é uma obra psicologicamente intensa que explora a natureza humana em toda a sua complexidade, e por isso nos toca tão profundamente!Logo, só me resta aconselhar convictamente a sua leitura!!!Nota: Não posso deixar de louvar aqui a brilhante tradução do casal Guerra, que foi efectuada a partir do russo, conferindo um maior grau de autenticidade à obra.
1764465763	Dostoyevsky forces us to examine crime from a much broader perspective - a perspective that questions the implicit (and explicit) connection between the criminal and the criminal justice system. Should be required reading for all members of law enforcement who have command responsibilities. Should also be required reading for metal heath professionals who have to deal with marginalized groups.
1930627929	If I were not to be a reader, would’ve not known the places I’m never been to, nor the people I’ve never met, it is only when we identify with another soul, we come to know our own, our caged beings are feathered and our little brains expanded as we glide over infinity other worlds so different from ours and yet alike. I’ve been sleeping with a murderer for last fortnight, in long dark hours I’ve been an intent listener and an ardent lover, to be in mind of a murderer is not a very safe port to be, Dostoevsky makes his readers suffer by the same excruciating pain as his characters experience in their doomed state, the never-ending battle of right from wrong, reality from delusion, mental stability from confusion and crime from confession leaves us exasperated and in awe of such nerve wrenching tale which with every turn of page leaves us in midcoitus just the moment we thought we had it all, in us. As life tells us he did so, it’s only through a book we realize the “why” of it, and it is the time we become lovers of murderers.Stricken by poverty and dogged to change his doom, Raskolnikov regards the idea of robbing an old pawnbroker on his way back to the closet apartment he resides as paying guest. The subject is very simple. A man conceives the idea of committing a crime; he matures it, commits the deed, and so the punishment starts, the flash back of the scene plays in the screen of his mind, he is tortured by his own self, he wants it to end, considers confessing his crime before the authorities, and yet finds no courage to do that, in the long run goes to police, states his crime and is sent to Siberia. If it could only be that simple! Raskolnikov is the student of law and a self-acclaimed revolutionary, a nihilist to the boots, intelligent, unprincipled, unscrupulous, reduced to extreme poverty, decides to take matters in his hands for once, for him world is crowded with two kinds of people, the one who act and are named in history, like Napoleon, for whom the smaller crime done to accomplish bigger aims is defensible and even requisite, Raskolnikov strive to be the one. “Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. The really great men must, I think, have great sadness on earth.” And there is no greater grief than to be the torture cell of one’s own thoughts, no greater agony than to ablaze in uncertainty at the point of insanity, Raskolnikov’s punishment started the day he seeped in him the idea of crime, suffering never brings atonement, as Dostoevsky tried to preach, but more suffering.Other plot threads weave the whole picture of Russia of the time, when one with three times a bite of bread was considered lucky, the time when women were either domestic hags or harlots, the time when everyone talked too much, spanned over hundreds of pages the talk of no consequence, the time when Russia had witty officers in police, who used to hunt down criminals like a tiger and yet waited for his surrender, and the time when people killed just to see if their theories were in alignment with reality. Dostoevsky had witnessed death with his bare eyes, as he faced the firing squad in St.Petersburg and was spared at the last moment, and the way he rips off the layers of human mind, lays us naked before us and the whole world to view, is of no surprise!!
1700146710	I first read this book in high school and it blew my conceptions of literature away every bit as much as Light in August and One Hundred Years of Solitude. The first use of stream of consciousness, the deep analysis of Raskolnikov's conscience, the extraordinary plot movement and violence, the perfect narrative viewpoint...everything about this book is near perfection and at the highest level of literary achievement. For me the two Dostoyevsky books to read if you are to read any are this one and Brothers Karamazov. If not for all the universal themes addressed and the vividly depicted characters, then for the incredible prose and in-depth character analysis. I don't think I will ever fully sound the depths of Crime and Punishment.I have read it in two English translations and one French translation. I would recommend that Folio version in French and the Oliver Ready translation in English.
4808624157	‏" و لو أن القدر قد اختار له الندامة المُحرقة التي تحطم القلب و تطرد النوم . الندامة التي تجعل صاحبها ينتحر شنقاً أو غرقاً ، إذاً لكان سعيداً ! إن الآلام و الدموع هي الحياة أيضاً ، و لكنه لم يكن نادماً علي جريمته . "إن للعقل سلطان ، و سلطانه علي النفوس أن يقودها ، يبرر لها ، يرشدها ، أو يوبقها و يؤدي بها إلي سبل الهلاك .تختلف المعايير و الأعراف من بلد لبلد ، و من عصر لعصر ، و من شخص لشخص ، فهل يعني هذا اختلاف العقل المُسيّر لإرادتنا ، أم يعني تباين القيم الإنسانية التي يحملها كلٌ منا ؟هل يحق لك أن ترتكب جريمة واحدة ، إذا كان يأتي بعدها ألف خير و عمل صالح ؟هل تُسوِّل لنفسك أن تقتل أحداً إذا ما كان قتله يجلب الرخاء عليك و علي غيرك ؟و في موج عاصف من الأسئلة نبحر في صفحات متلاطمة تورثك القلق و الحيرة و الشك مثل ما كان حال أشخاصها أجمعين .في رحلة طويلة مع هذه الرواية الأسطورية سيُطلعك ديستويفسكي علي خفايا النوايا ، و خبث القلوب ، و ألم الفكرة ، و ضيق النفوس ، و رحبة التضحية ، و جمال العفة ، و كرب الحياة ، و الندم المدقع ، و الأحلام المرعبة ، و الكبرياء الخادع ، و كأنك اقتحمت الرواية و عشتها لحظة بلحظة .الجريمة واحدة و لكن تعددت سُبُل العقاب .لم أملّ منها رغم حجمها الكبير و قد خطفتني في غياهبها الساحرة ، تستحق أن يُخلد اسمها في تاريخ الادب الإنساني 🤩أحببت صونيا ، دونيا ، روزماخين ، و بالطبع راسكينلاكوف في النهاية .و كانت الترجمة دقيقة راقية كأجمل ما يكون ." أن تسير في طريقك الخاص الخاطئ أفضل من أن تسير بشكل صحيح في طريق شخص آخر ، في الحالة الأولى أنت إنسان ، في الحالة الثانية لست أفضل من طائر. "تمت✨‏photo host
3863915483	Crime and Punishment (again) - this time translated by Michael R. Katz (published 2018). I found this version refreshing - improved in both form and narrative - from the previous Constance Garnett or Richard Pevear /Larissa Volokhonsky ones (both a bit outdated for me – less “Russian”, resembling more “Dickens” than “Dostoyevsky”). What do you do? -I work. What kind of work?-I think… A treatise on ethics and human psyche. What is the very meaning of the words good, evil, obligation? Raskolnikov, a wounded man suffering of moral chaos: a split personality with a painfully hidden agony - an unavoidable torment goaded to the point of madness. Two murders - two facets of Raskolnikov's psyche. A life between consciousness and delirium, a perpetual claustrophobic nightmare, where accepting “suffering” is the only way out. The Übermensch must stand alone and apart from all other people! Through suffering man's sins are cleansed, through suffering comes redemption: “Accept suffering and achieve atonement through it”. This is a perpetual battle of reason vs emotion: but is emotion too flawed to win? In the end catharsis through love; for only love can restore Raskolnikov to life…“in fact, now he was not deciding anything consciously; he was only feeling…instead of dialectic, life itself had arrived…” “What if man is not really a scoundrel. . .then all the rest is prejudice”. If You Could Only Read One Book In Your Entire Life This Is It.PS1. On the obligation “to the service of humanity and the good of all”: Can you justify the suffering of few for the benefit of the many? Per William James (The Moral Philosopher and the Moral Life): “if the hypothesis were offered of a world in which Messrs Fourier's and Bellamy's and Morris' utopias should all be outdone, and millions kept permanently happy on the one simple condition that a certain lost soul on the far-off edge of things should lead a life of lonely torture, most people would feel that the enjoyment of such a utopia would be a "hideous thing" at such a cost.” (supp.: The Morality of Creation: Dostoevsky and William James in Le Guin's "Omelas" by Shoshana Knapp, The Journal of Narrative Technique). PS2. The Brothers Karamazov: A New Translation by Michael R. Katz will be available mid 2023…looking forward!
4907624666	Need to go back and annotate once I’ve read what more intelligent people than me had to say about it, but I liked it. And now I can annoy lit bros by telling them I preferred The Atlas Six to Dostoyevsky.
6153253763	Pierwsza książka przeczytana w tym roku i już wiem, że trudno będzie ją przebić. Znakomita.
595133697	I do not know how to begin, I am utterly troubled. What to do? What to say? In my opinion, to write a review of Dostoyevsky's great masterpiece is a very hard undertaking. To write a decent one, even harder. A week ago, if you asked me what my favorite novel was, I'd greatly struggle with it. I might consider Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, Nabokov's Lolita, or probably even Heller's Catch 22. I might give varying answers. It would probably depend on my mood, or the current focus of my stream of thoughts. But, alas! Now, now I have found it! A book, unquestionable enough to be the greatest novel and work of fiction that I have read. As I say this, please bear in mind that I have humbly read very few of the novels I intend to read. Let us say that I'm still a novice of the classical greats. Call me a classical dunce, if you must. I have scarcely pierced through the surface of the greatest literary works. Scarcely. So forgive me, if you think that I overpraise this. Bear with me. Deal with me as a wise and knowing adult would deal with an inquisitive child. What I ask for, is your indulgence, if you can give it to me.Crime & Punishment. Two words. Cause & effect. Low & High. Evil & Justice. Two words that are intertwined, knitted cheek by jowl, and always associated with the other. Two words that are close yet far as possible. The title's two words is reflective of Dostoyevsky's great masterpiece itself. Of course, it certainly is about the psychology of a crime and the punishment it measures. But more than that, the novel features exceedingly contrasting views. These views, contrasting and even paradoxical, can sincerely confuse a man. But, these seemingly contrasting views when scrutinized is really just the product of a struggle inside a man's very being. A man's final struggle of whether to finally detach himself from society, from life, from his humanity, or to finally succumb to it. These struggles, or contradictory ideas can be noted several times in the book. We have Raskolnikov's Napoleonic belief that he is of the elite, and should step over obstacles without being affected even if blood is involved, as was hinted in his article. Then, later on he would admit to Sonya that he was not of the elite since he was terribly affected. But again, when he was in prison he would declare that he was not there because he was guilty of anything but rather because he was weak and confessed. Also, we have his being generous and charitable. He would give Marmaladov's widow, Katarina Ivanovna, all the remaining 25 rubles his mother sent him. Then there was his helping of his schoolmate and the crippled father, and the saving of two children in the fire. Here was a man acting as a savior to strangers yet could not even bear to look and much less talk with his mother and sister. Here was a man who believed that anything could be sacrificed for the success of his career, who killed two women yet refused that her sister be wed to a rich man for his sake. Here was a man who regarded religion as nonsense yet read the gospel and asked people to pray for him. Here was a man who didn't care if he died, didn't eat, didn't care about his illness, yet refused to commit suicide. Here was a man suffering. A man, who because of his crime, suffered his punishment of madness, of guilt, of never ending anxiety and anxiousness. I fancy that Dostoyevsky reiterates that this punishment that goes on through a criminal's mind is far more potent than the punishment of being contained in four walls. As he pointed out in the epilogue, that in prison, the convicts valued life much more. While in this state of madness, of insane ecstasy. A man would undergo extreme suffering and lose his mind and matter. In the words of Sonya, "Oh, what suffering! What suffering!"“The man who has a conscience suffers whilst acknowledging his sin. That is his punishment.” This struggle inside Raskolnikov, is enhanced by his intellect. He cannot help but disdain what is going on inside him. His reason rejects his will. If anything, the more intellectual you are, the more you are prone to detach from your surroundings. You reason that feelings and relations are merely nonsensical. You think of dialectics instead of breathing fresh air. “Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. The really great men must, I think, have great sadness on earth.” As I give my conclusion, let me also give some remarks about my feelings towards the end of the book. It is hard not to root for a happy ending. I was glad that Rasumikhin and Dunya had gotten theirs. And after such pain and suffering, I have forgiven Raskolnikov and want for him peace of mind too. His final realization that he indeed had love for Sonya brought me intense joy. I do not know why. Maybe it was empathy, if anyone deserved happiness it was Sonya. Sonya whose happiness was only through Raskolnikov. Here was a Murderer and a Harlot. Two shameful transgressors who believed that their transgressions were justified. One out of vanity, the other out of charity. One who is vile and contemptuous, the other loving and loyal. Bound together by some irreversible force of nature. Intertwined. Like the words Crime and Punishment, Raskolnikov and Sonya are two people who are far different but are bound together. They are allegories of the words themselves. Raskolnikov stands for Crime. He is a murderer who is unrepentant, he is contemptuous, menacing, vain, and indifferent. A man who believes he is above the law. All for self-gain. Sonya stands for Punishment. She is true, loving, loyal, charitable, a woman who deserved richly but lived poorly. A call for justice. Raskolinkov and Sonya, two utterly different people that are connected by suffering. Raskolnikov is crime, he cannot atone himself no matter what he does. Sonya is the atoning punishment. Only through Punishment, can Crime be atoned. Only through Sonya, can Raskolnikov atone himself. This enduring masterpiece is a beauty to behold. A complex, broad, and psychological mastery of not only crime and punishment but also of life, death, sacrifice, society, intellect, love, and ultimately renewal and hope. As I end this review, let me leave you with these excerpts. "Go now, this minute, stand in the crossroads, bow down, first kiss the earth you've defiled, then bow down to the whole world, on all four sides, then say aloud to everyone: 'I have killed!' ""Accept suffering and redeem yourself by it, that's what you must do.""He went on down the stairs and came out in the courtyard. There in the courtyard, not far from the entrance, stood Sonya, pale, numb all over, and she gave him a wild, wild look. He stopped before her. Something painted and tormented, something desperate, showed in her face. She clasped her hands. A hideous, lost smile forced itself in his lips. He stood a while, grinned, and turned back upstairs to the office.""But all at once, in the same moment, she understood everything. Infinite happiness lit up in her eyes; she understood, and for her there was no longer any doubt that he loved her, lover her infinitely, and at last the moment had come... "
2724510160	ای انسان ابله! گمان بردی که با نفی ادیان به قله علم و معرفت رسیده‌ای؟! پس بگو، چگونه بی‌عدالتی در بدو تولد را توضیح خواهی داد؟ رنج‌هایت را چگونه توجیه می‌کنی؟! چطور کسی را از خودکشی منع خواهی کرد وقتی قبل از آنکه انتخابی کرده باشد، سقف آمال و آرزوهایش تعیین شده؟ ای انسان! به من بگو چگونه عدالت را در زمین برقرار خواهی کرد.آه ای خدایان! ای زمین و ای آسمان! من فقط می‌خواستم بر آنچه که شما بر من تحمیل کردید، طغیان کرده باشم. می‌خواستم به خود ثابت کنم که می‌توانم انتخاب کنم. انتخابی خارج از آنچه که شما به من ارائه کردید. می‌خواستم به خودم ثابت کنم که من هستم! اما ای دریغ... من می‌خواستم ناپلئون باشم. می‌خواستم اراده‌ام را بر تمام جهان تحمیل کنم و بر زشتی و پلشتی تیغ بَر کشم. دریغا که من هم شپشی بیش نبودم.چگونه می‌شود این رنج را تحمل کرد؟ وقتی بچه‌ها گرسنه‌اند و تو چیزی نداری که بهشان بدهی، وقتی کاترینا به سرش می‌زند و می‌پرسد "سونیا، چرا ما پول نداریم؟" بهشان چه خواهی گفت؟ وقتی فاصله آنچه انسان می‌خواهد باشد و آنچه که واقعا هست زیاد شد، چه باید کرد؟ به من بگو اگر از فرودستان، دین را بگیریم برایشان چه می‌ماند؟ نه دوست من. بیا دیگر ادامه ندهیم چون نه آنها تاب تحملش را خواهند داشت، نه ما طاقت ضربه تبر را.
2310784028	I wish some books never had to end.This will undoubtedly top my top 5 books of 2018. Guaranteed.
1122688718	"Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a broad consciousness and a deep heart. Truly great men, I think, must feel great sorrow in this world." In this review I focus on the theme of pain as a path toward personal growth and discovering one’s true identity. I dedicate it to my friend Jeffrey. At first we would just read each others’ reviews. It was a common painful experience that bought us together and let me get to know the fabulous person behind the written words. Thank you for being what you are, Jeffrey!SPOILERS "If I am guilty, forgive me (though if I'm guilty, I cannot be forgiven)…I'll try to be both courageous and honest all my life, even though I'm a murderer. Perhaps you'll hear my name someday." How much do we know of forgiveness? It is a thing universally spoken of, asked for, preached, aspired to, but do we actually know what it means? Can it be defined? And if so, is there anyone who has the right to define it and give it a universal meaning or is it something each of us needs to define for him/herself? Is forgiveness meant to erase the act? If so, then, indeed, nothing could ever be forgiven, because nothing can ever change the past, bring back the time, make you a different person, change the reality of who you are and what you have done. But if there is such thing as forgiveness, what does it mean? Does it mean to believe that the committer is not guilty, that they have done their best under their circumstances? But if there is no crime, then there is no need of forgiveness. Or is this it? To keep an open mind, to understand when and where judgement needs to be bestowed and when and where – withdrawn. Or is it to conceal, to hide your negative feelings toward them and act merely on your positive ones? But if so, wouldn’t that be a lie, a false forgiveness, a show? And if we let it all out, then wouldn’t we be condemning them, after all? Or maybe this is it. Along with the accusations to be able to show them some goodness, to remember that they are humans too. And what about when we have no positive feelings toward them and all we can see is a monster? And if we don’t let ourselves fall into lust for vengeance and let them go, or even, show them some goodness, despite the knowledge that they wouldn’t do the same for us? Would that be forgiveness? And if the wound is healed? Does our overcoming the hurt automatically bestow forgiveness on the committer? And how would they feel? If the pain is gone, does that release us from responsibility? If the victim ceases to be a victim, does the criminal cease to be a criminal? If those whom we have hurt can make peace with what we have done, can we? Which is the harder forgiveness? The one we need to bestow on others or on ourselves? Do we truly believe in forgiveness when we speak of it? Can a wound really be overcome? My friend Jeffrey told me once that we don’t get over things. That the best we could hope for is to find a place for them somewhere within us and carry them in a way that wouldn’t paralyse us and that would let us keep going despite the pain. And I said to him that if we were able to have everything we needed, we would have been able to get over things. But due to life’s nature, there is always more that needs to be overcome. If it is true that we never get over things, then it is because there are always new ones piling on top of the old ones. Also, what happens when there is not enough left of us to be healed? In Fugitive Pieces it is said: ”Nothing erases the immoral act. Not forgiveness. Not confession. And even if an act could be forgiven, no one could bear the responsibility of forgiveness on behalf of the dead. No act of violence is ever resolved. When the one who can forgive can no longer speak, there is only silence.” Whatever the truth, I believe that forgiveness, whenever possible and with its different faces, helps us in our sorrow, in our need, our humiliation and anger. Raskolnikov’s family and friends presented to me a truly profound from of forgiveness. They don't conceal their feelings and their belief that what he has done is unacceptable, incomprehensible, cruel act. Yet, they do so without assuming lofty position, without anger, without judgement, without coldness, without contempt. They choose to treat the criminal as an equal, as a victim in need of help, as a loved one. But can a criminal be a victim at the same time? Those are the biggest victims. Victims of themselves, of their inability to rise above and believe. But is it so easy to determine the nature of a crime? It is usually seen as a harmful to others deed. But I don’t believe that things are simply right and wrong. Not everything that isn’t wrong is right, and not everything that isn’t right is wrong. I believe in gray areas. “You shed blood!” “Which everyone sheds, which is and always has been shed in torrents in this world, which men spill like champagne, and for which they're crowned on the Capitoline and afterwards called benefactors of mankind…if I'd succeeded, I'd have been crowned, but now I'm walking into the trap!” We tend to see people who bring down oppressors, dictators, tyrants, as heroes, revolutionaries. And this is how Raskolnikov sees himself. It is his personal rebellion against an oppressor. Oppressor who consists of more than an old pawnbroker. To him she is part of a decease that the world is rife with. She is no a single tyrant holding a whole city or nation in her fist, but sometimes the face of evil, the oppression is not just one person, but many. To him she is part of a society that needs to be brought down in order for new, better breed of people, compassionate, altruistic people, to come and rule. To come and make the important decisions. And he thinks that if he can't defeat the system, he can at least weaken it by destroying one of its members, the harsh, uncaring old woman, and add the acquired from her to the good society, to those in need. And he also sacrifices an innocent woman in order to protect himself and his plan. And the pawnbroker herself? I don’t think he sees her in this horrible light because she doesn't want to relieve him a little bit of his debt. Or at least not mainly because of that. I think he sees her this way mostly because there is no compassion in her refusal, no understanding. There are those who make hard decisions and hurt other people but are hurting while doing so and are sorry for that they need to do it. This woman shows no compassion, no regret. And it is this most of all that drives him over the edge. I believe it is essential to show compassion toward those we hurt. Even when we think they deserve it, even when we feel we have no other choice. Raskolnikov kills her. And kills her sister. He believes that sometimes it is acceptable for an "exceptional" human to sacrifice an "ordinary" one in the name of the greater good. I cannot see him as simply a criminal, or simply a victim. I can neither oppose, nor side with his philosophy. All is quite relevant. I can talk of this situation. Do I see the murder of the two women as justified act? No. Yet, I can’t help but feeling more sorry for the murderer than the victims. Raskolnikov has a truly exceptional mind that, unfortunately, proves to be a knife with two blades. Sofia Simeonovna asks him: "And how is it, how is it that you could give away your last penny, and yet kill in order to rob!" He is one of those with whom the good and the bad come from the same place. His passion, his broad consciousness lead him to both great good and great cruelty. For some reason it just goes both ways. His victims lack the capacity for such a crime, but they also lack the capacity for the good he is capable of. He is a deep, very deep person, but he doesn’t possess the necessary to bear this depth. It is marvellous to possess such a wealth of profundity and passion, but only when you have the means to channel them the right way. Sometimes the best of us is the worst in someone else. There are those of us who lack the necessary substance to bear their gifts with dignity, integrity, passion, and therefore their depth, their brilliance is a murder. They incite them to believes and actions that are far beyond our and their own comprehension. Only a healthy spirit can bear the weight of a large intelligence. As Raskolnikov himself points out, ”it takes something more than intelligence to act intelligently”. I keep asking myself why our human complexity results into violence, sadism, cruelty, and not in beauty, nobleness, desire. It is our birthright and obligation to be more than what nature has bestowed on us. Technically, biologically, we are no more than animals, part of the big chain, but inwardly we are something else. Something exceptional, spectacular, breathtaking. We are strong and beautiful in our intricacy, but cruel and weak in our inability to bear it, to recognize it, to give in to it. The beauty of the human heart and mind is always dual, deadly and life-giving, poisonous and healing, grand and small. And it is there that lays the biggest mystery. For it is pain and suffering that the most beautiful creations are based on. It is pain that forces us to grow, to develop, it is pain that reveals to us our most amazing qualities, our deepest beauty, our profoundest selves. It is there that lays the irony, the paradox. Our highest cannot exist without our lowest. As said in ”An Unnecessary Woman”, ”Peaks cannot exist without valleys.”. I think it is rather notable that after having murdered two women and being incarcerated for it, Raskolnikov is actually more at peace with himself than at the beginning. The pain he goes through changes him. He might have commits his crime only once, but in his mind many times before that. Subconsciously, but still, the thoughts, the feelings that lead to it in the end have been part of him always. And after finally getting to it, he changes. "In torment he asked himself this question, and could not understand that even then, when he was standing over the river, he may have sensed a profound lie in himself and in his convictions. He did not understand that this sense might herald a future break in his life, his future resurrection, his future new vision of life." Sometimes there is no other way than through our own destruction and the one of others for us to come to realize our truth. In Raskolnikov’s case the cost he pays for his personal growth are the lives of two human beings and the suffering of all those who love him. Yet, in the end he does find peace. A peace he has never known before. Because it is one thing to imagine and think of something. It’s another to face it. Only when he truly faces his convictions, by actually acting on them, he realizes their true nature. Some I used to know told me they felt his remorse was self-serving. But does the suffering make the remorse more real, worthier? Isn’t it the inner change that is most important, the decision to be a different person? Desperation drives Raskolnikov toward his crime and had he stayed in this abyss of guilt and darkness, maybe he would have gone down the same road eventually. Yet, he manages to realize the error of his ways and make peace with what he has done, and this saves him and those around him. I believe, though, that personal growth can be achieved without a crime, without a downfall, without taking others’ lives and happiness away. I have always believed that, when it comes to personal growth, deep reading and writing are the best alternative to pain and suffering. Long live great literature.P.S. I would also like to thank my friend Sidharth who really does understand and appreciate the connection between beauty and pain and whose words about it were a part of what inspired me to write this. Thank you, Sidharth. You are a very wise young man. :)Read count: 1
1398087018	And if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss gazes also into you. --NietzscheI first read Crime and Punishment in my late teens. In those years I read several of the great Dostoevsky novels—The Idiot, Underground Man, and especially The Brothers Karamazov and C & P. In various “the BEST _____ ever” bar and coffee shop conversations over the years (such as, for instance, who is the hottest actress in the history of cinema, Ingrid Bergman in Casablanca or Lauren Bacall in To Have or Have Not?) (Ingrid, of course!), The Brothers K and C & P would always top my Greatest Novels of All Time list, usually BK first, C & P second. I actually once named one of my brooding gray cats Raskolnikov (Rascal, for short), so there: Proof that it wasn’t a trivial thing for me, this book. ☺I come back to C & P more than four decades later, as part of the process of my revisiting some of my greatest reads ever, and also reading some other Great Books that had been on my bucket list for decades, such as Anna Karenina and In Search of Lost Time. (Livin' the [Reading] Dream, man!)Spoiler Alert: I want to really talk about this book, so if you have never read it and still might, you might want to skip this review or at least parts of it. Some reviews I write in part for others; some of them I write mainly for myself, as a kind of autobiography of my reading. This I put in the latter category, though if you have read it, please tell me what you think of what I think.So, most people who have never even read this book already know from the simple title that a Crime has been committed, and most probably know a guy kills a woman or two. Then we know there is a punishment that follows the crime. Simple. You need 500 plus pages to tell that?! The short answer is yes. But the crime is basically what happens in the first hundred or so pages, and we never know exactly why, really, which is also part of the overall point Raskolnikov seems to be making to himself. So Rask kills his pawnbroker Alyona and robs her, though he never does anything with what he steals. In the process, her sister Lizaveta walks in so Rask kills her, too. So that’s the crime. The last 4/5 of the book is in part about the “punishment” which unless you omit the short epilogue, does not involve institutional punishment. The police have to solve this "mystery," and they do, with some suspense, I guess, but whodunnit is obviously not the point. The last 4/5 focuses on psychological and spiritual self-punishment or what Dostoevsky always refers to as “suffering.” And various considerations of what Dostoevsky never quite calls sin in the context of a parade of wild and wonderful characters.At the outset of the novel, we learn that former college student Raskolnikov lives in St. Petersburg, in relative poverty, spinning his wheels, drinking and hanging with women (or, spending some of what little money he has on prostitutes) (things that we know Dostoevsky also did much of his life, in addition to gambling). As things proceed we see Rask has published an essay about how there are some people, usually great ones, who are “above the law,” people who can do whatever they want and get away with it.Nietzsche, a nineteenth century philosopher, called such folks “supermen,” those who attempt to rise above the moral precepts of the time to achieve greatness or just to prove that moral systems do not apply to them. This might begin to summarize simply the moral position of Nietzsche: You have your way. I have my way. As for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist. There’s no God, and no religious or ethical system that must apply to all people.Rask commits the murders in part as a way of working out this stupid theory, though he is poor and at the very least could also use the cash he steals in the process, but never does. He seems to be making a point, this bright and anguished young scholar. So why care about this idiot, you ask? Well, read on.Rask needs the money, but when he has it, he tends to give it away to others. Not that he is a really a good guy; he IS a murderer, but he has some charitable aspects to his character revealed from time time. There's some goodness that shines through the grime. Sometimes he despicably tries to dismiss his murders as trivial, sometimes we see that the woman he murders is not likable in any sense, but he never gets off the hook for it, ever, especially with himself. This is not an isolated thing, this murder for philosophical principle, by the way. In the twentieth century, the two teenagers Leopold and Loeb read Nietzsche and just to test the theory killed a kid randomly in Chicago, and they fried (yes, were electrocuted) for it. They had the same thing in mind: Great men can do Whatever They Want and not experience Guilt. They will rise above ethics, they think or, as most novelists and moralists think, sink below it. The theory is an empty one, of course, as most humans with any common sense would see, but intellectuals, eh, sometimes they are kinda blowin' in the winds of theoretical fashion, as Dostoevsky sees it. Arrogant, they all think they wanna be Napoleon, D thinks. D thinks there are a lot of young nihilists around in the latter part of the nineteenth century when he writes this.Anyway, Rask is painfully aware his mother and sister will do anything to help him financially. And he’s maybe in love with prostitute Sonya, who is doing this terrible work to make money for her family. He fears his own sister (Dunya) will do similar sorts of prostituting (she has already, for instance, agreed to marry rich jerk Luzhin, just to help out the family that has gone poor in part through supporting profliigate student Rask; this is one sub-theme, how women are reduced in the [Russian] patriarchal economic system). But he never does anything with money except give some that he has to Sonya's family, left destitute at the death of their drunken father, Marmeledov. So he's strange and at times quite unlikable, our anti-hero Rask, though he is fascinating always and even a little likable sometimes to me, as I am also [pretty] [okay, a lot] fallible myself, so I have empathy for him sometimes. Later, we might see a kind of “moral” in this story about a man like Rask who doesn’t believe in God, from Dostoevsky through Nietzsche: He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. And if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss gazes also into you. [Nietzsche]That happens to Rask, and others in this book. They suffer, facing their demons or monsters.And no one depicts suffering like Dostoevsky. His predecessor and mentor in Russian literature, Gogol, also knew suffering, though while he is similarly recognized for creating poor folk grotesques, Gogol's are often comic. D references and creates tributes to his Master in this work, but most people don’t see D’s grotesque, suffering folks as all that funny. D does sad better than funny. In this reading, I saw some characters as (darkly) funny sometimes, however. There’s satire throughout, especially of the upper classes. D and literature in general don't usually make fun of the poor with any success. The drunken Marmeledov, for instance, is pathetic, but he's also hilarious and insightful and finally tragic. He’s a full and rich and complex character. We see poverty and its attendant horrors in many ways in this book, and we come to care about them and their needs. They suffer and we can see this is central to humanity. In some ways they become close to saints in their suffering. This is certainly true for Sonya, one of the several notable "madonna-whore" women characters in literary history.There’s some action in this book, of course; in fact it is sometimes quite the page turner as we wonder what is going to happen, whether Rask going to get caught, and so on, and in this sense it has the feel of a murder mystery where the suspense is whether he gets caught, but the centerpiece in this book (besides the moral wrangling) is dialogue in the service of character, and it works breath-takingly well here. Most twentieth century dark gutter noir (Thompson, Cain) owes much to Dostoevsky, for sure. And the talk from the gutter is stunning. Most of the male characters are tortured drunken philosophizers who go on page after page speaking their madness and grief. And most of these crazy flawed folks are indeed men doing most of the talking. The women are less crazy, and less flawed, on balance, and mostly crazy BECAUSE of the men, surprise, surprise. But the talk is amazing, it is the heart of the book as narrative creation. When men drink and talk, they are passionate, he has that down, (actually, this book came out of a failed attempt at a draft he called The Drunks!), but the ideas that flow from their mouths, the thinking about the meaning of life, the struggles with love and morality, all this is incredible. I mean it, no irony here. Some of the best writing ever, and about poor folks, sometimes even despicable folks, that he makes you care for! Is it their fault they are in such destitution? Well, sometimes, yes. See above.Does it go on a bit long, like this [undrunken] review? Some say yes, but not for me. We need to know what is going to happen and why for Rask, but we also need to broaden the lens and see others who are also suffering in their own ways. We need foils for understanding Rask in a sociological sense. Luzhin, the self-centered lawyer who is for a time engaged to Dunya, he’s a world class jerk, but an interesting one. While Rask is never excused for his murders, these other men and their iniquities help us see what can be some goodness at times in Rask, and appreciate the remarkable end of the book. The (also drunken) philanderer Svidrigailov is also a jerk, but he also takes care of Marmeledov’s consumptive widow, and after her horrific death, her children, including her step-daughter Sonya (she’s the one who has become a prostitute to help her family, whom Rask sort of over the course of the novel falls in love with, though simultaneously torments from time to time) (of course, because this is what relationships sometimes are) in part because he is trying to bribe her into marriage. He also tries to bribe Rask’s sister Dunya into marriage, though he is already engaged, and fails. He becomes a central character in the book because he (spoiler alert!) makes the decision to commit suicide, which makes him a foil to Rask, who also contemplates this, but instead, Rask chooses (spoiler alert) confession, hard labor in Siberia with Sonya able to come north with him and visit regularly. Another great character is the Columbo-like (look it up! You have google! Peter Falk!) bumbling and rumpled old genius detective Porfiry, who finally convinces Rask to confess and give himself up. Unforgettable character! Rask’s great friend Razumikhin is also wonderful in defense of Rask against all evidence to the contrary, who also agrees to take care of his sister and mother. He’s a strange man, also a drunk (D knows drunkenness, it’s clear) but good where most men are not in this book. The story is one of final and not easily achieved redemption, but we only see this in the very final pages of this long novel, as he finally fully accepts the love of Sonya, and understands it as a model for living. Sonya is the moral center of the book, with her unwaivering and not easily achieved faith in God. She’s convincingly Good, the closest thing to God's Unconditional Love we got in this tome. Rask's sister Dunya and their mother are also really good, giving up everything for her love of her son. Nastasya cares for Rask, too, She's also wholly good. The late goodbye scene between Rask and his mother is affecting and powerful. The scenes between Rask and (totally good) sister Dunya are powerful, too. Do you see a pattern here? Sure, Sonya is a prostitute, but only in necessity for her destitute family, of course. Women are often saints here, they make the right choices, or most of them do. Maybe that is a kind of literary flaw, that D deifies women; this is a kind of cliché. But there are a couple weak and wicked women in this book, too. The women don't always seem quite as real as the men sometimes because they are a little one-dimensionally good, but they are still great, they do still seem real to me.But it is LOVE that redeems Raskolnikov, the love of a woman, Sonya, and his mother and sister, too, but mainly Sonya, and while it seems like a stretch that she would care for him, she really does, and both he and we come to believe in her goodness and love.Some favorite scenes? Sonya’s reading of the Biblical Lazurus story to Rask is ELECTRIC, unforgettable. The best scene in the whole book, for my money. I was once religious and I know that passage from the Bible; I say now that I am agnostic, but that scene, that felt like an indictment, a promise to me, in my own lost-soul-ness. The scenes with Porfiry are great and the scene in particular where Porfiry finally accuses Rask is also ELECTRIC, I promise, as is the final scene of the book. The lyrical final scenes with Svidrigailov are wonderful, powerful and surprising; I had NO idea he was going to do that. Anytime Mom and Rask or Dunya and Rask are talking with each other, these scenes are deeply poignant, trust me. Marmeledov's drunken talk with Rask is wonderfully comic early on. When I first read this book I was “churched” in a Calvinism that seemed darkly consistent with Dostoevsky’s dark, angsty world view. Later, I came to like the work of D-influenced South African writer J. M. Coetzee, who actually wrote his novel The Master of St. Petersburg about Dostoevsky (yes, very much worth reading!). I still love these writers, though my views on matters of faith have shifted considerably. But as a veteran doubter, I liked D’s anguished struggles with faith and the meaning of life more than anyone else’s writing and thinking. And they once led me, in my existentialist period, into Kafka, Sartre, Camus, and others. Camus’s The Stranger and Kafka’s “Metamorphosis” owe things to C & P. Hamlet and Macbeth are anguished precursors, as is D’s own “Underground Man." Anyway, doubt and anguish have always seemed more interesting to me than joyful faith and happiness, and still do. I think the world is more complicated than mere celebration, though I have much to celebrate, too. But the world is a dark place just now, as I see it, with a lot of ugliness in it. Dostoevsky resonates with the present for me as much as it ever did.C & P is as much a psychological and sociological novel (about various forms of “madness” in nineteenth century Russia) as it is a philosophical renunciation of nihilism, though it is richly both, and much worth reading for these aspects. It’s a real thriller, too, a cat and mouse story with the focus on Rask and his interior experience of suffering, but it is also a novel the literary theorist Mikhail Bakhtin would identify as a “cultural forum” on issues in D's times in Russia. Raskolnikov is a jerk, a wonderfully reprehensible character that D refuses to sentimentalize, but as much as we despise him for some of his ridiculous youthful views—his ideas about the superman display the worst of the intellectualism of his times—we also come to appreciate him in various ways. Dostoevsky is a thinker, but he is first and foremost a poet of the heart and what might still be called “soul” unapologetically.The translation by Pevear and Volokhonsky is supposedly the best ever, much lauded, and I can’t say, not speaking the language, but it was fabulous to read. I read the Constance Garnett version 40 years ago. This is the one to read now, everyone says, so choose this one if you are going to read or reread. I also have read in the past couple years their translations of Anna Karenina and Underground Man and Brothers Karamazov, so I can attest they are wonderful writers/interpreters.Finally, yes, it is (again) one of the best things I have ever read, and I highly recommend it. You may find it a tad long for contemporary tastes, but hey, you also have David Foster Wallace, who is very long. Pynchon is long. Ulysses is long. Sometimes great things are long! And maybe he is too nineteenth century modernist for you, finally. But for me he is great, deserving of his high status in the canon of world literature. It is just one hell of a read. Sorry this is so long, if you read this far!
5040993219	Una novela que no castiga al asesino, sino al lector. Crimen y castigo no se lee: se sobrevive. En el San Petersburgo más sombrío, Dostoievski nos arrastra al abismo de una mente brillante y quebrada, donde el crimen es apenas el primer paso hacia una expiación sin redención. Raskólnikov no busca justicia: se mide contra Dios, contra la moral, contra sí mismo. Cada página es un juicio interno, una grieta en el alma humana.📚 Análisis completo en @__entre.libros__
2779275234	بدون شک برای کسی که قلبا" از اشتباهش احساس پشیمونی می‌کنه، هیچ مجازاتی سخت‌ تر از این نیست که یک عمر با حس سرزنش و بار احساس گناهی که خودش صادقانه بهش رسیده، زندگی کنه اما این وسط تکلیف تویی که با وجود گناهانات همچنان معتقدی که بی گناهی و سزاوار مجازات نیستی، چی می تونه باشه !؟ قطعا تحمل مجازات برای گناهانِ به باورِ خودت نکرده ت، هزار بار می تونه عذاب آورتر از زمانی باشه که حداقل می دونی داری برای اشتباهی مجازات می شی که لایقش هستیبه قول فلوبراگر رنج های ما به حال کسی سودی داشت، لااقل می توانستیم به نام این که فداکاری می کنیم خودمان را کمی دلداری دهیم هیچ شکی در اینکه زندگی ناعادلانه ست وجود نداره، حتی در اینکه خدا هم در این ناعادلانه تقسیم کردن سرگذشت آدم ها مقصره شکی نیست، اما اصلا همه ی اینا می تونه بهانه ای باشه برای اینکه به خودمون اجازه بدیم زندگی یه نفر دیگه رو، حالا هر چقدر هم پست و بی ارزش، بگیریم !؟ جوابش از نظر داستایوسکی هم مثبته هم منفی. یعنی همون قدری که راسکلنیکف این حقو داشت که زندگیه اون پیرزن کذایی رو بگیره به همون اندازه هم حق انجام چنین کاری رو نداشت. حالا چرا!؟ دیگه خودتون برید کتاب رو بخونید تا بفهمید^^----- یه توصیه هم برای اونایی که مایلن کتاب رو بخونن دارمکتاب تا 400 صفحه اول فوق العاده خسته کننده و ملال آوره، پس انتظاری از ش نداشته باشین.200 صفحه ی بعدی بهتر از بخش ابتدایی هست و داستان کم کم شروع به اوج گرفتن می کنه، 100 صفه ی آخر هم که شاهکار اصلی ماجراست و احتمالا اگر به خاطر همین صد صفحه ی اخر نبود، دو امتیاز هم به کتاب نمی دادم :)) خلاصه که با این کتاب صبور باشید تا از خوندنش لذت ببرید
2882877391	Una lectura difícil por culpa de su protagonista y el rechazo y angustia que me generaba... he estado casi el mes completo entre sus febriles pensamientos y he terminado por odiar profundamente a Raskólnikov.Pero el libro me ha gustado, ¿Lo he disfrutado? No ¿Merece la pena? Para mi sí.'Crimen y castigo' es un libro que te lleva a lo más bajo del ser humano, pero también a lo más noble y bueno. Representa un estudio apasionante de la mente humana y hasta dónde podemos llegar llevados por la desesperación, pero al mismo tiempo creo que le sobran páginas.Ha sido una lectura extraña, no he amado este libro pero sí me ha generado muchísimos sentimientos contradictorios y me ha dado que pensar...Seguiremos con Dosto pero me voy a dar un buen respiro ahora...
6671009301	men when they discover basic human emotions at 44 years old
4389422564	i thought these people would never stop talking
7852418601	I think it's time to accept that I seem to have a thing for classic Russian literature. This is my third novel by Dostoyevsky (I've previously read "The Double" and "Notes from The Underground") and easily my favourite. The murder of the old moneylender was very disturbing considering how old the book is (also a dream about the murder of a horse was vivid and repulsive). The characters leap from the page and even though the book involves murder and insanity and evilness there is also humour prevalent throughout. The protagonist Rodion Raskolnikov leaves me with ambivalent feelings. At times he seems remorseful and at others seems oblivious to doing wrong. The book is clearly a masterpiece. You do need to appreciate that every chapter will have a character giving a 5 page monologue (and I still struggle with how Russians use surnames) but that's minor nit-picking as it seems to happen in any old novel. I thoroughly enjoyed the novel and I'm looking forward to reading all of Dostoyevsky's work.
93911385	Single Quote Review:Am I a good person? Deep down, do I even really want to be a good person, or do I only want to seem like a good person so that people (including myself) will approve of me? Is there a difference? How do I ever actually know whether I’m bullshitting myself, morally speaking?~ DFW, imitating FMD
2136363604	Κάποτε της μοδός στα βιβλία ήταν η ρώσικη λογοτεχνία. Κάθε σπίτι που σεβόταν τον εαυτό του και το κουλτουριάρικο πρόσωπο που έδειχνε στη γειτονιά είχε βιβλιοθήκη τίγκα από δερματόδετους τόμους (αγορασμένους τις περισσότερες φορές με το μέτρο) από τους λεγόμενους Ρώσους κλασικούς. Γιατί λοιπόν να διαφέρει η δικιά μου πατρική σκοροφιδοφωλιά; Γεμάτη η βιβλιοθήκη από Τσέχωφ, Τολστόη (και Λέων και Άλεξ), Πούσκιν, Γκόρκη, Μαγιακόφσκη… Ως δια μαγείας όμως (ή ίσως γιατί τα χρήματα του μπαμπά μπορεί να είχαν τελειώσει για να παραγγείλει άλλα βιβλία με δόσεις) έλειπε ο Ντοστογιέβσκη… Ντοστό ούτε για δείγμα…Ε! τα χρόνια πέρασαν, καταβροχθίστηκαν όταν έπρεπε οι Ρώσοι, μου ‘παν πως και ο Ντοστογιέβσκη πέφτει και ολίγον βαρύς στο στομάχι, από μακριά κι αγαπημένοι. Τώρα πως επείσθην να διαβάσω το μεγάλο Ρώσο συγγραφέα, άβυσσος η ψυχή του σκορόφιδου.‘Έγκλημα και τιμωρία’ λοιπόν, ένα από τα εμβληματικά έργα του συγγραφέα, όπου ξεκινάει με τη δολοφονία δύο γυναικών από έναν πρώην φοιτητή, φτωχό δίχως στον ήλιο μοίρα, τον Ρασκόλνικοβ.Θεωρώ ‘εκ των ων ουκ άνευ’ να αναφερθώ στην υπόθεση ή στις αναλύσεις του έργου για ψυχολογικά υπόβαθρα, κοινωνικές προεκτάσεις και όλα αυτά. Έχουν γράψει κι έχουν γράψει άλλοι που τα κατέχουν καλύτερα αυτά.Αυτό που θέλω να πω είναι πως τελικά κάποιοι άνθρωποι δεν έγιναν κλασικοί γιατί έτσι τα κανόνισε το marketing. Είναι απίστευτο πως ένα έργο που εκδόθηκε πρώτη φορά το 1866 (σε συνέχειες στην εφημερίδα παρακαλώ…) μέσα σε μια τόσο διαφορετική κοινωνία με άλλα προβλήματα και άλλες προσλαμβάνουσες παραμένει τόσο επίκαιρο. Γεγονός που δηλώνει σαφώς δύο πράγματα: α. πως η φύση του ανθρώπου είναι ίδια κι απαράλλαχτη από την εποχή του προπατορικού αμαρτήματος, β. πως ο Ντοστογιέβσκη ήταν πολύ μεγάλος τελικά…Κι επειδή έχω φάει και τα χρόνια μου στα ντιβάνια των ψυχαναλυτών, ανακάλυψα με σοκ και δέος πως ο Ντοστογιέβσκη είναι ένας απίστευτος γνώστης της ανθρώπινης ψυχής και με χειρουργική ακρίβεια, βάζει το νυστέρι του βαθιά στο ‘είναι’ σου. Γι’αυτό κι ώρες – ώρες με ενοχλούσε απίστευτα η αφήγηση, όχι γιατί ήταν άσχημη η γλώσσα ή κλειστοφοβικό το κλίμα (που ήταν και αυτό) αλλά γιατί με έφερνε αντιμέτωπο ολόγυμνο μπροστά στον καθρέφτη της ψυχής μου και ποια ανθρώπινη ψυχή μπορεί να αντιμετωπίσει δίχως πόνο και δίχως πάθος τα σκοτάδια και τα λάθη της; Υπαρξιακές αγωνίες, αέναες μάχες με τη συνείδηση, ο πόλεμος του καλού και του κακού, ο άνθρωπος που δεν είναι ποτέ μονοδιάστατος αλλά κρύβει μέσα του στρώματα πολλών εαυτών, η σχέση με το Θεό, κι ένα τέλος που προϊδεάζει για sequel το οποίο δεν ξέρω αν ποτέ ήρθε (δεν είμαι και εξπέρ του Ντοστογιέβσκη).Σκοτεινό και αισιόδοξο, σου κλέβει τον αέρα για να σου ανοίξει το παράθυρο στη συνέχεια να αναπνεύσεις… Το αγάπησα αυτό το βιβλίο…Αγαπημένος μου ήρωας; Ο Σβιντριγκάιλοβ, ο φαινομενικά πιο ‘σκουλήκι’ ήρωας, ο πιο τιποτένιος, ο πιο αμαρτωλός, ο πιο έκφυλος, ο πιο… πιο… πιο… Μα είπαμε η ανθρώπινη φύση δεν είναι ποτέ μονοδιάστατη… Γιατί ακόμα κι αυτός ο έχει αισθήματα αληθινά και συνείδηση που τον συντρέχει.Βαθμολογία: Εκτός συναγωνισμού… Στο άπειρο κι ακόμα παραπέρα!Υ.Γ. Η μετάφραση του Άρη Αλεξάνδρου (απ’ευθείας από τα ρωσικά κι όχι αυτά τα δαιδαλώδη ρωσικά – αγγλικά – ελληνικά) κατ’εμέ υπέροχη και καθόλου δεν την βρήκα ξεπερασμένη… Κάποια κείμενα έχουν κι ένα βάρος επάνω τους… ας μην είναι η γλώσσα ‘φτερό στον άνεμο’…https://skorofido.blogspot.gr/2017/09...
4219314912	...
1612588573	ΕΥΛΟΓΙΑ και ΚΑΤΑΡΑ αυτό το αριστούργημα...Δεν περιγράφω άλλο... ΔΙΑΒΑΣΤΕ ΤΟ!
4004098224	if only someone had the common sense to send this this boy to the sea for his hysterics and weak disposition ... sigh
2784665424	“Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. The really great men must, I think, have great sadness on earth.”An impoverished ex-student in St Petersburg, Rodion Raskolnikov, formulates a plan to kill a pawnbroker for her money.I’m still in shock over how much I enjoyed Crime and Punishment. SHOCK. I feared it would take me WEEKS and that I’d be begging for it to just end... but I flew through it in less than a week and quickly found myself looking at which Russian classic I wanted to tackle next!All I can say is, if this one has interested or intrigued you, but it has intimidated you... do not be afraid!! It is incredibly accessible and bingeable. The perfect introduction to the Russian classics.There is so much going on that it’s almost impossible to cover it all in a review. There’s a crime... and there’s punishment. And so much in between! The idea of temporary insanity, the effects a guilty conscience can have, questions about morality... and so on and so forth.In terms of the characters, they were all so complex and well-fleshed out, and not always likeable, but my favourites were the ladies! Dunya, Raskolnikov’s sister, was the standout for me. She is so intelligent and strong-willed, with oodles of compassion for others. I also really liked Sonya, the love interest of Raskolnikov, and her dedication to her family, and found her mother Katerina to be an absolute hoot at times! Porfiry, however... god, some of his monologues were PAINFUL. I wanted to scream at him to get on with whatever he was saying!!Oh, I almost forgot to mention, something I struggled with at the start was all the names and interchangeable nicknames etc. Thankfully my edition had a handy character list at the beginning, with each of their alternative names. But once I got into it, it was fine! Just be prepared to struggle with that at first.Overall, a fantastic read that leaves you with a lot to think about. I’m glad that I tackled it and even more glad that I loved it! 5 stars.
1343572155	“Pain and suffering are always inevitable for a large intelligence and a deep heart. The really great men must, I think, have great sadness on earth.”I don’t even know where to begin with this one. I mean, what can I possibly say about “Crime and Punishment” that hasn’t been said already? I picked up my first Dostoyevsky novel right after finishing Yukio Mishima’s novel, “The Temple of the Golden Pavilion” (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), because of the parallels between the two stories: they are both about young, isolated and rather nihilistic men, and while one book ends with a crime and the other more or less begins with one, both works pick apart the hearts and minds of someone capable of committing such acts, and what brings them to it.Razkolnikov is a strange case: for most of the book, I did not know what to make of this man. Caught up in a bad financial situation, depressive, entitled, arrogant and utterly careless, there isn’t much to like in him. Especially since, as the story unfolds, you see that he is not nearly as intelligent as he believes himself to be. In fact, it becomes clearer and clearer that the person he thinks he is, and the person he actually is a very different, and as his self-image and rather muddled philosophical ideas start to crumble, he begins to seek forgiveness and redemption.After coming up with a half-baked philosophical notion on what distinguishes extraordinary people from ordinary people, Razkolnikov convinced himself that he can prove his absurd theory to be right by committing a senseless murder. He chooses his victim on the basis that she is an inconsequential moneylender, and that in fact, the world might just be a better place without her anyway, as she brings her customers much misery. Of course, things don’t really work like that, and the consequences of his gesture will plague him in more ways than he could have imagined. Razkolnikov starts out as a bit of a slacker: he doesn’t have a kopek to his name, but won’t take work when it is offered to him, instead of trying to get his life together, he lets things fall to pieces around him and then whines endlessly about his condition. Then he is forced (by his own hand) to wrestle with his conscience. It is truly remarkable how a few days bring him from one extreme of behavior to a completely different way of living and looking at his life.The description of the squalor of the poor neighborhoods of St-Petersburg, the misery and threadbare-ness people are reduced to, are vivid, almost Dickensian. And similarly, Dostoyevsky drives the point that people who live in such conditions will never be as important in the eyes of the law, as their more privileged counterparts. While this comes off as a bit heavy-handed and obvious at times, but thankfully, he also doesn't linger too long in lecture-mode.The treatment of female characters struck me as more nuanced than I was expecting: Dostoyevsky’s women are drawn realistically, with their flaws made painfully obvious, but their strengths and wills are to be reckoned with. Sonya and Dunya are incredible! The way Dunya gets rid of her horrid suitor and would-be rapist by standing up for herself and her family, and Sonya’s immense power of forgiveness and compassion had me enthralled. Sonya’s faith sometimes comes across as naïve, but at the same time, how naïve can a girl in her position possibly be?I read the Oliver Ready translation, which was clear and fluid, and made going through 700 pages much easier than I had anticipated. But I have to say that I found the first half of the book somewhat uneven. We go from moments of intense drama, to quiet introspection, to long ramblings that could have been trimmed generously without sacrificing any meaning... But once I got past the halfway point, things really ramped up, and it was difficult to put the book away for too long. The second half is really where the book earns its reputation as an existential thriller. Some scenes, while drawn out a bit, still kept me on the edge of my seat, hanging on to every word on the page, impressed by the intensity Dostoyevsky conveyed through something as simple as the reading of a few Bible verses... There is also a surprising streak of dark humour coursing through this novel, an absurdist humour that makes one snort rather than enjoy a good belly laugh – but I’m starting to think that’s just a Russian thing.Reading “Crime and Punishment” actually makes me look forward to getting around to “The Brothers Karamazov”, as I have found Dostoyevsky to be just as thought-provoking and entertaining as his reputation promised. A great, if somewhat imperfect book, well worth making time for.
2717859788	برای اینکه بت‌پرست نباشی،کافی نیست که بت ها را شکسته باشی، باید خویِ بت‌پرستی را ترک گفته باشی.|نیچهمکافاتِ جنایت چیست؟مکافاتِ جنایت در بیشتر موارد قصاص است. کسی که مرتکب جنایتی می شود، خود مسئول عمل خویش است. اما پس از ارتکاب جنایت برای شخص دو حالت به وجود می آید: شخص یا دچار عذاب وجدان می شود و یا دچار عذاب وجدان نمی شود. در رمانِ جنایت و مکافات، برای قهرمانِ داستان چیزی بین این دو اتفاق می افتد. یعنی قبل از ارتکاب جنایت فکر می کرده است که کار درستی انجام خواهد داد اما پس از ارتکابِ جنایت به درست بودنِ کارش شک می کند و همین مسأله باعث ایجاد کشاکش های روانی وحشتناکی در او می شود.برای مجرم، عذابِ زندان دهشتناک‌تر است یا عذابِ وجدان؟کسانی معمولاً دچار عذاب وجدان می شوند که انگیزه ی آنها برای قتل، مربوط به سائق های غریزی مانند خشم و گرسنگی و شهوت می باشد و یا زیر تأثیر مصرف مواد مخدر مرتکب جنایت می شوند. کافی است صفحه ی حوادث روزنامه ها را باز کنید تا هر روز مورد تازه ای از این نوع ارتکاب جنایت بیابید.اما کسانی هم هستند که انگیزه ی آنها برای قتل، انگیزه ای وَرای سائق های غریزی است. آنها هدفی متعالی در سر دارند و هنگام ارتکاب جنایت بر افروخته از خشم یا شهوت یا گرسنگی نیستند. آنها معمولاً کینه ای در دل دارند که معمولاً هم از وجود آن کینه بی خبرند. مکانیزم های دفاعی شان کینه را به لایه های عمیقِ ناخودآگاه آنان رانده است. آنها معمولاً به هدفی باور دارند که استفاده از هر وسیله ای را برای رسیدن به آن موجّه می دانند. و معمولاً پس از ارتکاب جنایت نه تنها دچار عذاب وجدان نمی شوند بلکه احساس آسودگی وجدان نیز می کنند.اما در رمان جنایت و مکافات، قهرمانِ داستان، راسکولنیکف، در کدام دسته قرار دارد؟ او گمان می کند که هدفی متعالی در سر دارد و برای انجام این کار برگزیده شده است. او می خواهد جامعه را از لوث وجود پیرزنی رباخوار پاک کند. کاری که هیچ قانون و عُرفی اجازه به انجامِ آن نمی دهد. او گمان می کند با این کار خدمتی به مردم آن جامعه خواهد کرد. و آخرسر این کار را انجام می دهد.آیا قوانین شهروندی، نِسبی‌اند یا قطعی‌اند؟برای جواب دادن به این سوال ابتدا باید از خود بپرسیم قوانین چگونه به وجود آمده اند؟ قوانین بر اساس انتفاع نسبی عمومی وضع شده اند و هیچ کس نیست که کاملاً از آنها راضی باشد و هیچ کس نیست که کاملاً از آنها ناراضی باشند. قوانین معمولاً برای سدّ کردنِ راهِ زیاده خواهی هایِ انسان ها وضع شده اند چرا که این زیاده خواهی ها در خیلی از موارد به ضررِ دیگر افراد جامعه تمام می شوند. و برای اینکه انسان ها بتوانند در آسایشی نسبی در کنار یکدیگر زندگی کنند، با هم قول و قرارهایی گذاشته اند که در کل، به نفعِ همه ی آنهاست. اسم آن قول و قرار ها قانون است. و اگرچه در حیز انتفاع، نسبی اند اما در اجرا باید قطعی باشند وگرنه به مرور، کارکرد خود را از دست خواهند داد.از ناپلئون بناپارت تا راننده تاکسی.داستایفسکی در کتاب جنایت و مکافات درباره ی نظریه ای به نام "نظریه ی مجاز شمردن همه چیز" صحبت می کند. طبق این نظریه افرادی که از حدود طبقه ی عوام و سطوح افکارِ عادی بالاتر می روند، همزمان نسبت به قوانین و عرف های اجتماعی بی اعتنا می شوند و گمان می کنند که از دیگران و حتا از قانون بیشتر می فهمند و خیر و صلاح خودشان و انسان های دیگر را می شناسند. این افراد هرگاه لازم بدانند برای اصلاحِ اجتماع، خود پیشقدم می شوند و شروع به اصلاح جامعه می کنند. راسکولنیکف نمونه ای از شخصیت های ادبی ای است که گمان می کند به آن مرحله ای رسیده که برای تشخیص گناه و صواب، هنجار و ضد هنجار، در موقع مقتضی می تواند تصمیم درست را بگیرد. از شخصیت های سینماییِ این گونه افراد می توان تراویس در فیلم "راننده تاکسی" ساخته ی مارتین اسکورسیزی را مثال زد. اما داستایفسکی در کتاب جنایت و مکافات برای اثبات صحتِ نظریه اش از استقراء استفاده می کند و تاریخ را گواه می آورد. خاصّه ناپلئون بناپارت را که گویی خدای راسکولنیکف است. مظهر شهامت و رشادت و تهور است. او هر کاری را بر ناپلئون مجاز می داند و بر همان اساس خود نیز از او تقلید می کند و برای اصلاح جامعه، می رود و رباخواری را با تبر در خانه اش می کشد. اما بر خلاف دیگران عقیده اش دچار تزلزل می شود و عاقبت به گناهش اعتراف می کند و محاکمه می شود.متمّمدر اینکه مسایل زندگی شخصی داستایفسکی تا چه اندازه بر داستانهای وِی تأثیر گذاشته اند و شخصیت های داستانی اش را از چه کسانی گرته برداشته است، در زندگی نامه هایی که برایش نوشته اند،به وفور یاد کرده اند. اما در کتابی که چند وقت پیش مطالعه کردم، داستایفسکی: جدال شک و ایمان، مختصر و مفید در این باره سخن گفته اند.
3434414546	"¿De qué soy culpable ante ellos? ¿Para qué voy a ir allá? ¿Qué voy a decirles? Todo esto es tan sólo una alucinación... ellos mismos degüellan a millones de seres, y todavía se consideran virtuosos"Me gustó mucho este gran clásico que definitivamente lo es no tan sólo por el contenido sino por el modo que está escrito y estructurado aunque hay detalles desde luego que no me gustaron. Gracias a Dios mi edición tenía una lista antes de empezar de los principales nombres de los personajes rusos que son insufribles. Aún con eso uno se enreda y creo que nunca me acostumbraré a la manera cómo se llaman entre ellos y el nudo que hace en mi cabeza. Por eso prefiero "a la antigua" cuando se les traducía los nombres incluso al español.Desde luego lo comparé bastante con "Rojo y Negro" de Stendhal al ser éste mucho antes precursor de un tipo de personaje que para mí debe haber influido en Dostoyevsky de alguna manera, pues todos los realistas rusos asumieron mucho estilo del francés romántico y realista que realmente fueron los que marcaron la pauta en ese estilo de todo el siglo XIX. El mismo Dostoyevsky se dedicó a traducir a algunos autores franceses al ruso y es innegable la influencia. Raskolnikov es un personaje muy bien construido y aunque uno de los detalles que más me aburrió o molestó fue que se pasaba la mitad de la novela en estado febril, sus monólogos no tienen pierde, me hizo recordar "Demian" de Hesse y vaya que uno le cree y sobre todo aterrizas más con Rodia que con Demian, por lo menos entiendes mejor sus impulsos y su contexto, no es tan filosófico pero qué más explicativo que la misma vida de Rodia. Siempre supe el argumento desde colegio y aunque siempre quise "justificar" muchas cosas de la novela al leerla la verdad no se terminan justificando muchas cosas, pero lo que sí está bien plasmado es el pensamiento de Raskolnikov. Es un tipo que a diferencia de Julián (quien más que todo es ambicioso y aspira a una vida superior) odia a todo el mundo, de hecho tiene muchos rasgos psiquiátricos de ensimismamiento, falta de contacto social, abandono, depresión y un largo etcétera. Hay una frase casi calcada de "Rojo y Negro" cuando ambos personajes dicen algo similar: "no soy grande (soy piojo) porque yo mismo me lo pregunto". A pesar de creerse superior sin embargo Rodia vive en un estado febril y enfermizo por lo que de ninguna manera lo es y él mismo lo sabe. "A algunos de sus condiscípulos parecía, en verdad, que los miraba cual si fuesen niños, por encima del hombro, como si a todos los sobrepasase, tanto por el talento como por el saber y las ideas, y considerase sus convicciones e intereses como algo inferior"Pero sí disfruté mucho sobre todo de sus monólogos donde se mostraba más filosófico, razonable y hasta perverso, pero tiene grandes frases; mas bien en su interacción con las demás personas está totalmente desbocado aunque por momentos aparezcan destellos de lucidez y humildad.Algo que sí me sorprendió fue que hablara frecuentemente de Napoleón, eso sí no sabía, igual Julián habla de él, pero en el caso de Rodia no parece ser una admiración real y tangible sino una justificación de su moral, un desperfecto si se quiere decir, un asesino y un transgresor. "El verdadero dominador (Napoleón), al que todo le está permitido, bombardea Tolón, asuela París, olvida a su ejército en Egupto, derrocha medio millón de soldados en la retirada de Moscú y sale del paso con un retruécano en Vilna; y todavía, después de muerto, le levantan estatuas... Según parece, todo le estaba permitido. ¡No; esos seres, por lo visto, no son de carne y hueso, sino de bronce!"Me dio bastante gracia lo de la utilidad. Es un concepto que también en Stendhal se consideraba algo terrible, la gente que sólo ve "lo útil" pues yo muchas veces le he ido por ahí en cuanto a decisiones. Pues Rodia también es muy práctico y cree en ese concepto firmemente por sobre todas las cosas. Luego están muchos personajes, no son a mi parecer "tipos" ejemplificantes de su época, tenemos a un comisario, a un secretario, Etc que sin embargo no me llamaron en lo absoluto la atención, a pretendientes mayores o menores, y bueno en sí a la familia de Raskolnikov que quizás más que todo giran en torno al personaje principal. Ni siquiera Sonia me llegó a llenar demasiado los ojos como personaje aunque sí Dostoyevsky llega a tener niveles de cotidianidad cuando hace interactuar a Razumijin, Dunia, la madre de Raskolnikov, Etc. Cuando entraba en esos niveles, se alejaba de lo filosófico, de la descripción demasiado científica de los trastornos mentales, también me gustó bastante. Desde luego el gran amigo de Rodia Razumijin gana muchas simpatías por su estilo desenfadado y su gran preocupación por su amigo, un ejemplo de amistad y de sensatez ante la terrible tragedia que desde el primer momento de la novela se avecina.También la descripción de la pobreza aunque sólo con la familia de Marméladov realmente la sentí mejor descrita me agradó y desde luego horrorizó algunos desenlaces de los personajes. En cuanto a Sonia lo que más me gustó sin duda fueron los dos diálogos grandes que tuvo con Raskolnikov, más que todo porque era una lucha constante entre ambos, una tensión entre el crimen y la religión, el trato que le da él a ella es bastante duro y áspero pero se armoniza perfectamente con lo que realmente es. Si hubiera cambiado demasiado pues hubiera sido poco creíble y raro en la atmósfera de la novela.He tenido grandes ratos de aburrimiento sobre todo cuando Svidrigailov y Porfirii Pétrovich hablaban, creo que son personajes que no aportan demasiado en cuanto a descripción de caracteres, en la historia sí desde luego, pero como personajes no les veo mayor sentido. A pesar de eso una estrella más por el personaje de Rodia muy bien llevado y por la gran estructura de la obra.
1851203371	Διαχρονικό αριστούργημα, ένα βιβλίο άρτιο από όλες τις απόψεις.Αν ήμουν συγγραφέας θα ήταν το χρυσό πρότυπο (επίσης, θα είχα σκάσει απ'τη ζήλια μου που η πένα μου ποτέ δε θα έφτανε σε τέτοια επίπεδα αλλά αυτό είναι άλλο θέμα). Ως αναγνώστης, θαυμάζω όχι μόνο τη αφηγηματική δεινότητα του Dostoyevsky (είναι κοινότοπο και που το λέω ακόμα) αλλά και το πόσο στρωτή κι αναπάντεχα ευανάγνωστη είναι η γραφή, χωρίς να κάνει ουτέ μια στιγμή εκπτώσεις στη σοβαρότητα και το κύρος του. Αυτό για να βλέπουν μερικοί, μερικοί πως το να γράφουν δυσκίνητα και πολύπλοκα δεν είναι αυτομάτως δείγμα ποιότητας και πως το να πραγματεύεται κανείς θέματα υπαρξιακής αναζήτησης, εσωτερικής πάλης και κάθαρσης δεν είναι αντιστρόφως ανάλογο με τη ρέουσα αφήγηση. Ο δάσκαλος Fyodor Mikhailovich έδειξε πώς γίνεται. Τα έχει πει, άλλωστε, καλύτερα από μένα η Όλγα Χαρίτου."- Το Έγκλημα και Τιμωρία είναι μια περιπέτεια της ψυχής, είναι ένα δράμα της ύπαρξης. Είναι ένα βιβλίο σχεδόν θρησκευτικό. Μ' αυτή την οπτική θα το ξαναδιαβάσεις σήμερα.- Πάλι να το ξαναδιαβάσω;- Πάλι και πάλι και πάλι!"
5379072536	I kept wishing it should never end. The re-read made me appreciate the themes,psychology and everything about Dostoevsky's writing more. An extremely immersive read, brilliant in every aspect.There is so much to say, but I am always speechless when I finish a work of Dostoevsky. I never considered myself to be qualified to write a review of his work, I can only admire and worship.Glad to have revisited this masterpiece. This translation is perfect,highly recommend it to anyone who wants to try this.I am still stuck in Raskolnikov's mind, it will take a while to come out of it.Looking forward to re-reading Dostoevsky's other works.
2559747322	Προτού η ψυχανάλυση καταστεί modus vivendi και οι Αρχιερείς της αποκτήσουν εξουσία επάνω σε ψυχές και σώματα προσφέροντας σωτηρία, ο Ντοστογιέφσκι καταδύθηκε στα έγκατα της ανθρώπινης ουσίας μέσω της μυθοπλασίας του, αντλώντας το πρωτογενές υλικό από τα σκοτάδια της ύπαρξης. Με πένα στιβαρή, δυσήνια και βαθιά ουμανιστική, μετουσίωσε τον ζόφο και το έρεβος σε Τέχνη υψηλή, ασπαίρουσα και διαχρονική. Το "Έγκλημα και τιμωρία" παραμένει το "πρώτο κινούν αίτιο" μιας αναγνωστικής εμπειρίας δίχως τέλος.
2593152382	Crime and Punishment stands as a cornerstone of Russian literature, leaving an indelible mark on the literary landscape. This timeless masterpiece delves into the dark recesses of the human psyche, exploring themes of guilt, redemption, and the consequences of moral transgressions. Published in 1866, this novel continues to captivate readers with its powerful narrative and profound insights into the human condition.At its core, Crime and Punishment presents the compelling story of Rodion Raskolnikov, a destitute student who commits a heinous crime. The novel artfully delves into Raskolnikov's tortured conscience, skillfully dissecting the intricate workings of his mind. Dostoevsky's remarkable ability to delve into the depths of the human psyche allows readers to empathize with the complex, flawed characters that populate the story.One of the key elements that sets Crime and Punishment apart is its exploration of moral dilemmas and the consequences of immoral actions. Dostoevsky poses thought-provoking questions about the nature of guilt and the capacity for redemption. As readers follow Raskolnikov's inner turmoil, they are forced to confront their own ethical beliefs and consider the consequences of their choices. This introspective aspect of the novel has had a profound impact on Russian literature, as subsequent works have often explored similar moral quandaries.Another remarkable aspect of Crime and Punishment is its depiction of St. Petersburg, the setting that serves as a metaphorical reflection of Raskolnikov's mental state. Dostoevsky paints a vivid and atmospheric picture of the city, employing vivid descriptions that add depth and texture to the narrative. This portrayal of St. Petersburg as a character in itself has influenced subsequent Russian writers, who have utilized settings to convey deeper meanings and symbolize the psychological state of their characters.Furthermore, Dostoevsky's meticulous character development in Crime and Punishment has had a profound impact on Russian literature. Through his vivid portrayal of Raskolnikov and other central figures, the author delves into the complexity of human nature, highlighting the internal struggles and contradictions within each individual. This rich character exploration has inspired countless Russian authors, who have sought to create multi-dimensional, psychologically complex protagonists in their own works.Crime and Punishment's influence on Russian literature cannot be overstated. It paved the way for a new era of introspective and psychologically driven narratives. Dostoevsky's exploration of moral dilemmas, his masterful depiction of St. Petersburg, and his profound character development have become hallmarks of Russian literary tradition.Overall , Crime and Punishment remains an iconic work that has left an enduring impact on Russian literature. Dostoevsky's exploration of the human psyche and his thought-provoking examination of moral dilemmas continue to resonate with readers to this day. Through this novel, he has shaped the course of Russian literature, inspiring generations of writers to delve into the depths of human experience and tackle profound philosophical questions. Crime and Punishment stands as a testament to the power of literature to illuminate the complexities of the human condition.
4377416272	This was my first Dostoyevsky, and I’d heard a lot of praise, but I was still not expecting it to be so immersive and engaging. A character as brilliant and profound as Raskolnikov doesn’t need my acclaim. The reader is pulled so deep inside his dark, twisted mind that it's hard to avoid becoming utterly engrossed in his story.Dostoyevsky’s themes, though fascinating, aren't always the lightest. But even so, I was genuinely shocked by how modern this felt, and what an absolute thriller of a page turner it turned out to be! Crime and Punishment is many things, but it's never boring; not when you’re in a world of St Petersburg slums, axe murderers, oafish drunks and spying police investigators. Maybe we non-Russians have it easy because of translation, but I’m happy to say this masterpiece isn’t nearly as dense as people make it out to be. I thoroughly enjoyed every one of its seven hundred closely written pages.Instead, I'd say the lack of paragraphs and Russian naming conventions are what pushes this into a slightly heavier read, but it's still worth it. I find it interesting that Crime and Punishment has the reputation of being one of the bleakest and most depressing books out there, but I found myself truly moved by the beauty and poignancy of its ending.
6355600670	after a year of planning and scheduling conflicts… it is time for ren & i to read 🎀
7022423425	▫️The whole question here is: am I a monster, or a victim myself?▫️Break what must be broken, once for all, that's all, and take the suffering on oneself.▫️The man who has a conscience suffers whilst acknowledging his sin. That is his punishment.▪️▪️▪️This classic has left me speechless. How can love, poverty, crime, and dilemma be portrayed so perfectly?
2614927485	È sempre difficile fare un commento a un opera del calibro di "Delitto e castigo". Basta dire che è uno dei migliori romanzi della letteratura mondiale e che tutti dovrebbero leggerlo almeno una volta nella vita.Dostoevskij scrisse nel 1866 questo romanzo geniale (più di 150 anni fa e sembra scritto ieri), denso e scioccante in cui l'azione e il ragionamento si sviluppano in parallelo, l'una sostenuta dall'altra, in sovrapposizione, generando una tensione che aumenta gradualmente. L'azione e il ragionamento sono rappresentati da personaggi ben disegnati e profondamente umani.L'idea alla base della storia ci fa riflettere in come la società possa spingere una persona verso il crimine. Ma, fondamentalmente, suscita il pensiero di come una tesi può ossessionare un uomo fino a trascinarlo a commettere un atto atroce. Raskolnikov, uno studente che ha abbandonato i suoi studi, vuole dimostrare a se stesso che non è un miserabile e che, in misura più piccola, può comportarsi come i grandi uomini che dirigono i disegni del mondo allo scopo di costruire la propria visione di come sarebbe un mondo migliore (L'impronta di Napoleone).Commesso il crimine, Raskolnikov non soffre di rimorso per aver strappato una vita umana. La sua vittima per lui rimane un insetto che non merita la vita e la cui eliminazione favorisce alla comunità. All'improvviso capisce che il suo crimine lo separa per sempre dal resto degli uomini, che disprezza, ma tra i quali deve vivere. Una spirale di sentimenti confusi catturerà lo spirito del giovane che combatterà contro se stesso per finire arrendendosi alla certezza che ha bisogno di espiare la sua colpa per poter sentirsi di nuovo uomo."Sbagliare è l'unico privilegio umano su tutti gli altri organismi viventi. A forza di sbagliare si arriva alla verità! Sono un uomo appunto perché sbaglio. Nessuna verità è stata raggiunta senza aver prima sbagliato quattordici volte, o forse anche centoquattordici, e questo è a suo modo onorevole."Dovevo immergermi nel mondo di Dostoevskij, i grandi classici non deludono mai. Da leggere con pazienza, disciplina e molta analisi. Poi capirai perché è un capolavoro così influente in Psicologia e nella letteratura universale.-- Link Babelezon Link Amazon
1271677676	"I like living. I have sometimes been wildly, despairingly, acutely miserable, racked with sorrow, but through it all I still know quite certainly that just to be alive is a grand thing."- Agatha ChristieCrime and Punishment proved to be one of those rare breed of books that well and truly break through the outer facade and leave behind a permanent impression, even if its a dark and hideous one.Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky died a 110 years ago before I was born, and yet all through the while that I was reading Crime and Punishment, it felt like he must have written this books for me and me alone. It was almost as if he could see through time you know; like a known face reaching out from an unknown, distant pass. I found Raskolnikov's actions and world view to be eerily similar to that of mine, as if I was looking through his eyes. Or if he was looking through mine eyes instead; one and the same. Now mind you, this is not necessarily how the world is, only this is how he chose to see it. Or perhaps this was the only way he was capable of seeing it. Note the difference between the two, for Dostoyevksy not once accuses Raskolnikov of a crime. He lets us, the readers, decide for ourselves about that. That, however, is right about the only slack he cuts him.Everywhere else he scythes through his 'protagonist'. Lays bare his twisted and conceited thoughts, practically strips him naked. And that is where I found myself cringing. Raskolnikov's biggest flaws, his worst nightmares, his darkest secrets were all mine. But this wasn't it. Every time I looked up from these accursed pages, I could almost imagine Dostoyevsky sitting off across me. With a smirk on his face he would say, "You really thought no one would ever know?"Add to this the fact that beyond a point in this book, Nina Simone's beautiful rendition of Sinnerman would not stop playing in my head. You know you're in love with a book when mere words on a scrap of page (although Dostoyevsky's are hardly 'mere words' to be honest) can spring in your head one of your favorite tunes. English is not the most evocative language in the world; am afraid that honour must go to Urdu. Yet, the force behind these 'mere words' is one to reckon with, and I learnt it the most beautiful way.And to top it all, Sonya. I am a sucker for simplicity and her character was delightfully attractive and fascinating. As is, I found her and Raskolnikov's a better story than most that I see around myself, real or imaginary world whichever. Should I feel too stupid to wish happiness for them? I think not, because its not too bad to have a little bit of hope at times. And that is what I realized Dostoyevsky was trying to tell us too - that there is hope and redemption for the worst of us. Raskolnikov and SonyaSo yes, living is worth the while. So said Madam Christie..so said Raskolnikov too, and Dostoyevsky. So say I.
1626843362	Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Crime and Punishment is aptly named, though it should probably be called Crime, Random Babbling, Where Did That Gun Come From? and Punishment. I enjoyed Raskolnikov as a character and I enjoyed sinking in to his mind at various times, but I do think the whole book was hugely disjointed and rather lacklustre.I don't think blaming the translation would suffice. There would be pages and pages of dialogue, and then pages and pages of no dialogue at all and there was absolutely no flow. Important moments were often lost in deluge and the wonderful remarks of Raskolnikov were always dulled down by the sheer tedium of what was happening around.I never fully felt immersed in the mental state of our double-murderer, either. (And no, that isn't a spoiler.) I felt the incoherence and the frustration but it often felt quite superficial, as if it was just a way to expound the other characters and their presence. Speaking of, the other characters-aside from having about fifty names each-were all a little lacklustre themselves. I really enjoyed the idea but I thought execution was rather poor. There seemed no fluid motion and, whilst I think this did evoke and portray the mental state of our dear criminal, I don't think it was done to the effect it could have been: there should have been no other points of view. First person would not have rectified that, just a simple third person narrative with little or no omnipotence.
