956203752	The "Basic Eight" are a group of teenage friends. Flannery Culp is our neurotic narrator. The novel is about love and murder and friendship in high school. This review of THE BASIC EIGHT features my very own Basic Eight from Los Alamitos, Orange County. Photos circa 1988.KEY WORDS:REALISTIC ☻ PRIVILEGE ☻ SARCASM ☻ SAN FRANCISCOUNREALISTIC ☻ PRETENSION ☻ FRIENDSHIP☻Jeff: On a technical level the novel is somewhat impressive, given that it is a first novel from a novice author. I enjoyed the dark, intelligent humor because I gravitate towards darkness and intelligence when it comes to my entertainment. I particularly enjoyed the character of Natasha. She’s the sort of chick I also gravitate towards. Overall the novel felt somewhat realistic to me because I engaged in many ‘Basic Eight’ activities during high school such as talks about The Arts while listening to classical music over a sophisticated dinner. Unfortunately, I was a +1 to that group of adjunct friends; my own Basic Eight mainly indulged in binge drinking on our parents’ various boats. Sigh.I grew up to be a Website Developer. I make more money than you can even imagine.☻Kathy: OH MY GOD THIS BOOK MADE ME LAUGH!!! SO FUNNY! IT WAS FUNNY BUT WITH A SAD AND SORTA DESPERATE CORE TO IT, JUST LIKE ME! HAHAHAHAHA! I’M NOT SURE I UNDERSTOOD EVERYTHING BUT I LIKED WHAT I UNDERSTOOD! HA! OK I’M JUST KIDDING, I UNDERSTOOD EVERYTHING BUT SOMETIMES I PRETEND NOT TO UNDERSTAND THINGS BECAUSE, WELL, I DON’T KNOW WHY! JUST BECAUSE! ANYWAY, GOOD BOOK!I GREW UP TO BE A SCHOOLTEACHER! AND A MOTHER! TO A WHOLE LOTTA RUGRATS! PLUS I FELL OFF OF A WATERFALL AND SURVIVED!☻Mike: Wow, reading this book was like reading my life story, well, not my whole life story and not the whole book either. Just the part about the gay kid, that really spoke to me, I understood where he was coming from and I admired his courage in coming to terms with it so young. But honestly, a lot of the book annoyed me, it wasn’t “laugh-out loud” funny, it was more of the sarcastic sort of humor that Marcy & Mark like so much and I think that kind of humor gets boring after a while, just the same sarcastic tone of voice over and over again, constant sarcasm which is really just being mean disguised as being funny. So I loved the gay character and I loved some of the girls, they were fierce... but I can’t say I loved the book too much.So after graduating I went on various Christian missions around the world until I came to terms with being gay. Getting it on with another closeted Christian missionary can be an eye-opening experience. Now I’m married, to a man. Life is good!☻Kelly: I have to admit that I didn’t understand many of the references in this book. Also the author mixed up Oprah and Dr. Phil and that didn't make sense. And one other thing really confused and bothered me: this is set in San Francisco? And a schoolteacher – in San Francisco – had his house burned down because he was gay? Okaaaaay. Well that would never happen. I love fantasy but I don’t love things that are set in the actual real world that don’t bother to get their facts straight. Facts are important.I grew up to be a Senior Accountant for Pacific Gas & Electric.☻Craig: The girls in this book sucked! So neurotic. Why complicate your life with so much bullshit? Sometimes I just wanted to slap them all, they were so fucking pretentious. FUCK THAT ATTITUDE. Why couldn’t they just get drunk and relax, have a regular high school experience, why be such snobs, what’s the fun in that? BORING. A boring book about boring, angsty teenagers who don’t realize that they live lives of complete privilege. And goddamnit, they should be enjoying that privilege! Kids like that should be having a good time and getting drunk on boats, not hosting boring dinner parties and whining to each other all the time about their boring lives. STUPID. Only a liberal with too much time on their hands would write something like this.I grew up to be a high school Vice Principal. ☻Marcy: I agree with Craig: these were some whiny, pretentious types who loved talking about themselves. Real twits - the sort of people that Jeff & Bill & Mark snuck off to hang out with because I guess they were just too cool for getting drunk on boats with the rest of us every weekend. What kind of teenager wants to talk about classical music, what kind of teenager prefers theatre to sports? The lame kind. But I will give it this: it has the sarcastic, nihilistic humor down pat. I loved that. I also enjoyed how it took sexual harassment seriously and I really, really enjoyed the comeuppance that one teacher experienced. I hope that scumbag stays in a coma for the rest of his life. I also didn’t mind that Adam State was beaten to death with a crochet mallet. Some guys deserve that. He was one of them.I moved to Alaska and became an Assistant District Attorney. Later, I had a change of heart and became an Assistant Public Advocate. From one side of the courtroom to the other. Funny how life turns out.☻Bill: Eh. The book was self-indulgent. It was entertaining, but by the end all of the characters annoyed me. Although I did laugh a lot. It didn’t make me think, but it did make me laugh. And laughing is good. Right? I dunno. Whatever.I grew up to be a Physical Therapist. And a Jazz Musician. ☻Mark: I quite liked this one. It was a breeze to read and I liked the mind games it played on the reader – although the tricks it played were predictable, they were amusing tricks all the same. The author perfectly conveys a certain kind of voice – sarcastic, highly intelligent, mordantly funny, angsty, insecure. Flannery Culp is a striking and surprisingly loveable creation. The book started off fun and the fun only increased as the narrative darkened. Overall: smart, lightweight entertainment. One caveat: absinthe = acid? Really? No. I've tried both many times when much younger. Very different effects. Come on, Handler.Anyway, I grew up to be a Goodreads Troll.(view spoiler)[I’m pretty annoyed with a lot of the Goodreads reviews of this book. Some people need to understand that KIDS LIKE THIS DO EXIST. For real, people, they truly do. Just because their lives are foreign to your own personal experience, it does not mean that those lives aren’t possible. Your teenage years are not everyone’s teenage years. I mean really, duh, get your heads out of your asses. My friend Greg’s review was particularly condescending in how it posited that Daniel Handler was probably an outcast in high school – and so the kids in this book live lives that the author wished he had been able to live. It is all basically Handler's fantasy of an enjoyable high school experience, one where the outsider has a clique of intellectual friends and is finally able to get back at those who supposedly spurned them... when in reality he was probably just a lonely, friendless little loser. UGH, GREG, UGH! I think that since Greg was apparently a jock in high school, it is hard for him to imagine that people who weren’t like him and his friends could ever have Basic Eight-type times in high school. That they could have even enjoyed high school at all – people who weren’t like him and his friends must have been completely miserable, right? Unfortunately that is a common jocko misperception – I remember coming across that attitude in high school. I sneered at the arrogant cluelessness of that attitude while drinking on boats with my own Basic Eight. I also sneeringly recounted the cluelessness of such attitudes over many a sophisticated dinner, in between discussing the theatre and other arts, while listening to classical music, all with my Adjunct Eight, where I was a +1. (hide spoiler)]☻Look at us all together: my Basic Eight, my Adjunct Eight, plus some models and some jocks and a duck. But no cheerleaders! Not allowed. ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
117895198	Karen may disagree with this theory, but I came up with it while reading The Basic Eight and I'll expound on it here. I was going write a second part to this review, but it was going to be chock full of spoilers, and I kind of hate spoilers. And some book reports. This book is part of the Secret History tradition of contemporary literature. But, as the cover of this book would seem to allude to for anyone who grew up in the late eighties, it also points towards the movie Heathers. This book, Donna Tartt's and the movie all can be summed up by Winona Ryder's line from Heathers, "Dear diary, my teen angst has a body count." They are about kids who are smarter and more cultured than their peers who end up killing someone. Add lots of other examples of books into this. Look up Karen's "Like Secret History" shelf for more examples. The obvious reason why books are continually being compared to Secret History is that it's a pretty successful comparison. Just look at, well this book was pretty hip in the early oughties, or how Special Topics in Calamity Physics did, and then there are other books that have done pretty well too but I haven't read them. It's not secret conspiracy (rim shot) that when something makes publishers money there are a gazillion knock-offs busted out in a feeding frenzy of sucking on the tit relatively limited amount of money consumers are willing to shell out on books (relative to say movies). If you disagree with me on this idea just pretend I'm talking crazy and keep on being wide eyed and innocent but don't venture outside alone too often. I'd argue that this particular sub-sub-genre of fiction is propagated by another reason. This is where Karen doesn't agree with me. I think some writers are anti-social people who have to have suffered some kind of social trauma in their younger days. Now this isn't all writers, but some. I'm guessing that in their teenage years they had ideas of their superiority to the masses of people in their, say, school and while they sat alone somewhere (say the library instead of subjecting themselves to the humiliation of sitting along in a crowded room of 500 people) reading or doing whatever they did. Or maybe they had their small group of friends, but they weren't really in. But they were smart. And in their fantasies they were part of an exclusive clique of very smart outsiders who were so above everyone else, but the violence of repression of course comes through even in fantasies and murder of those who spurned them comes eventually to the forefront. Where else except in a fantasy world such as these would someone be cool for knowing Ancient Greek, or because they listened to 18th century Opera instead of to the incessant droning guitars of cretinous rock music? In a slightly modified manner this archetype is present in Twilight. Or say in Buffy (although interestingly in Buffy the image of the fantastical is destroyed when seeing what the non-supernatural / 'real-world' thinks of The Scooby Gang.I think there are lots of writers who would like to re-write their teen years to be cooler for what they were really like. And I think that there are quite a few readers who also find something endearing about this type of narrative. Or maybe they just relate. Karen for some reason disagrees, but what does a former Prom Queen know about this kind of stuff anyway?
4208522	How do I love "The Basic Eight"? Let me count the ways. I love the delicious untrustworthiness of the narrator. I love the cheerfully horrifying violence. I love the snarky questions for the reader at the end of each chapter, textbook-style, that don't just remake the points but cleverly further the plot. I love the dizzying revelations at the end and I love the physical descriptions of the clothes, the disastrous party, the drunkenness. I think I'll go read it again right now.
244472501	Well, damn, this book is smart. I'm not talking about the ending (I don't actually think all the mechanics work out perfectly) so much as Flannery herself, in all her glorious unreliable narrator-ness. The book is her diary, which she's editing for publication from prison - the treatment of time is beautifully messy and fun. You've got (1) traditional diary-style storytelling, (2) annotations at the original time of writing (i.e. Flannery giving her friend her journal instead of telling her a story and then stopping and saying, wait, I'm only writing this now, that won't work), (3) annotations during the editing process, (4) entire anecdotes added in and acknowledged as dramatized (i.e. a scene in which her friend gives her a ride and they argue briefly about their group's new nickname - The Basic Eight - and then Flannery gets out of the car and tells you that she walked to school that day, but she knows a conversation like that happened at some point, and this seemed like as good a place as any to include it), (5) conversations repeated word-for-word, between different characters (actually my favorite part of the book - Flan talks to Adam, and then repeats the conversation with Gabriel, this time taking Adam's role - it's identical, down to the descriptions of expressions and such), (6) open acknowledgement of all of it! She wants you to know she's unreliable! She wants you to see the seams where things were pieced together, and not care, because it's her story, damn it! And it's SO GOOD.
2532261974	Dark, devious and intoxicating. This book pulled me in with some sort of twisted, magnetic force, until it was 2 AM and I realized I had finished it in one go. Full review to come.
941830414	OH MY GODSo many people have compared this to Donna Tartt's THE SECRET HISTORY, and definitely there are lots of similarities. In THE BASIC EIGHT, an exclusive group of friends who are super rich and pretty pretentiously into high culture enter their senior year of high school. There are crushes, drinking, drugs and teachers involved, and yes finally a murder (not a spoiler). I love the whole unreliable-narrator-editing-her-own-diary-after-the-crime format and mode. It's been done a lot, but not in this fresh and funny way, which probably can only be done by a teenager. What I love about this more than THE SECRET HISTORY is that the characters in THE BASIC EIGHT feel so real, like they're really speaking from the pages to me. When I wasn't reading I was thinking about them like they were in this world, what they could be doing now and all that. I don't know people like them personally and sometimes they talk and behave in ways quite dramatic I can't really see people talking and behaving, but their personalities were so much more fleshed out than those students huddling over their Greek books in THE SECRET HISTORY. Handler's dialogue is not only so witty and funny, but so sharply real. At so many points in the story I truly felt like I was reading a girl's story, not written by a man. This is crazy strange to me because I love the author's A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS books, and his writing here is SO wickedly different! I mean, there are clear traces of his style and plotting ideas that go into ASOUE too, but gosh the voices are very different, kudos to Daniel Handler, that's some great talent!Anyway, the characters feel real to me mostly because they're the true kind of pretentious in the way that they're aware of their acts and mock themselves. They love how the high culture life of opera, classical music, lawn furniture and wearing suits to school looks, and they want it. While some of them have some of it, they know they're not perfectly prim people and don't try to be - they still listen to annoying indie-pop bands, they're not really that smart with Flan failing so many classes, even admitting she doesn't know every American poet and willing to learn. While THE SECRET HISTORY gang feel like the cold perfectly white marble Greek statues the book's cover reminds me of, THE BASIC EIGHT gang are colourful messed-up teenagers.Some things I didn't like so much were the blurry understanding of some characters like V___, JRM and Lily - they're pretty vague to me, like they could do anything anytime. And the drama leading up to the climax was a little far-fetched and confusing. But I guess that all makes the first-person diary POV genuine. I'm lucky that I didn't guess the big twist until, like, one page before the revelation. Lots of people did not enjoy it because they knew it early, but Flan did drop quite a few clues when I think about it, so maybe she didn't mind people guessing it way beforehand. Anyway I still didn't find it OMG-shocking, the ending was pretty abrupt. I closed the book with a sense of awe and loved it not really because of the twist, but because of how everything tied in together - the writing, style, characters, plot - in a really complete kind of way that shows the author's efforts and mastery.
309555389	A friend recommended this book to me, and while I usually trust and agree with her literary opinions, I hated this book so much. It was so pretentious (the narrator constantly corrected her sentences ending in a preposition. for example. Just write it the right—correct—way in the first place!). I think it tried to be funny, but it was hard to tell, and it wasn't funny anyway. There were digs at the reader's intelligence and ejaculations of "Dear reader!" (that only works in like, classic novels). The Satanic thing, as well as the absinthe thing, was talked about throughout the entire book, yet ended up being really downplayed. The characters meant to represent real life people had annoying and stupid names like "Winnie Moprah." Lastly, are there really high school students wearing suits to school and throwing dinner parties? Ugh. I just couldn't find anything to enjoy about this book.
5088141	Poorly written, thinly-veiled satire of my high school. A friend claimed that this was brilliant, so I slogged through it.
747990612	This book was a thoroughly enjoyable 4-star read to begin with. Fun characters, dark humor, deliciously written sentences. This kind of thing: "Natasha arrived, bearing cleavage and brie, and immediately fell into a squabble with Gabriel over how to bake it properly. Kate and I sat basking in the pretentiousness of it all." It's so self-aware it's ALMOST annoying, except that it rings so completely true. Apparently the author drew quite a bit from his own San Francisco high school experience, which makes passages like this all the more hilarious:"'I'm a homosexual,' he said medically.'Homosexual?' I said. 'Isn't that what they do to milk?'"Anyway, all of this would have been pleasant enough, plus something something metafictional whatever, and THEN you get to the very end, which throws a remarkable wrench in the works that forces you to rethink everything about what you've read. Seriously, I went back to the beginning and reread a few chapters just to make sure. I don't want to say any more about it, but trust me. Such a pleasant surprise of a book.
1076556113	This book, I see, is being compared to 'The Secret History' by Donna Tartt and 'Special Topics in Calamity Physics.' I disagree strongly. Both Ms. Tartt, especially Ms. Tartt, and Marisha Pessl are not only better writers, but they both are far superior in execution of a story.Not that 'The Basic Eight' lacks merit. I found it to be an interesting read. My complaints are two-fold. I thought the execution was rather clumsy. I think if this had been a bit more streamlined, it would improve and elevate the story. My much bigger problem is the dialogue. It rings false. I think Mr. Handler did not channel a female teenager very believably. I was conscious throughout the entire story of this weakness, pulling me out of the story in fits and starts. This is a problem. As the novel progressed, instead of navigating through a maze of tangled relationships and situations, I found myself feeling the plot became more and more unbelievable and outlandish. This made the ending lack the punch I am sure the author intended.
2932257	So if I had read this in high school I can guarantee you it would have been my favorite book at the time. It is an incredibly mean spirited high school drama with a sick twist, revolving around a clique of outcast/precocious/uppity/self-involved intellectuals, much like myself (or the self I thought of myself as) in high school. I can see myself at 15, reading The Basic Eight outside a coffee shop, listening to the dead milkmen on my walk-man and smoking clove cigarettes... oh so very cool. It's definitely a page turner, I found myself having a hard time putting it down, in more of a guilty pleasure type of way than anything. I'm willing to bet in less than 2 years, this turns into the next "Mean Girls". I can see Camilla Belle playing the heroine, Flannery Culp; and Evan Rachel Wood playing the mysterious and infamous closeted lesbian, Natasha. Mark my words, it will happen- or a similar casting anyway.Fans of Lolita and/or coming of age/high school genre will dig this.
922771	It's obvious that this is a first novel. If you've read any of the Lemony Snicket books, you'll see where they came from. Despite its gimmicky plot, horribly precocious teenagers, and its overall grimness, I found myself entranced and enchanted about this book. The Basic Eight are who I wished I was in high school (hell, I wish I were like any of them now), and they're painted with an alternatingly endearing and maddening world-weary hopelessness but with just enough innocence to be likable.
2078191490	when the unreliableness of the narrator is so blatantly clear but like... it's still so twisty. loved the characters. loved the style. love love lvoe. it was a delicious meal of a book.
11791633	This was fun to read, but not quite the most wonderful book you will read in your life, contrary to what many of the reviews on Amazon.com would like you to believe. If it is the most wonderful book you've ever read, might I suggest broadening your horizons?On the plus side:• The voice of the first-person narrator (and murderess), Flannery Culp, is irresistible - smart, irreverent, quirky (OK, maybe a little insane as well), and highly entertaining.• Handler is a good writer, and knows how to structure the story to keep your interest - you definitely want to keep reading to see how things turn out. His account of the horrific, climactic final party was hilariously brilliant.• This book establishes Handler’s ability to write outside his “Lemony Snicket” persona. Here he ventures into the "Secret History"/"Calamity Physics" milieu, and generally acquits himself fairly well. (something I wouldn’t say about his later book “Adverbs”)On the negative side:• His satirization of popular culture is heavy-handed at times, or too self-consciously clever. References to “The Winnie Moprah" show, or to "Benjamin Granaugh's new movie, Henry IV" are just kind of silly.• Some reviews have criticized the book on the grounds that its final plot twist isn’t quite coherent, and introduces certain inconsistencies which are never satisfactorily explained. I think this is a valid criticism, but it didn’t bother me near as much as some other difficulties with the plotWARNING: SPOILER POTENTIALMy real difficulty with the book is that the entire story is completely implausible at the most fundamental level. Specifically:Where were Flannery’s parents? Their daughter is sliding into total meltdown over a six-week period, and they don’t even make so much as an appearance. Now, theoretically, one can postulate parents so distant, so uninvolved in their daughter’s life, as to be completely unaware of her slide into homicidal madness. But I’m not buying it. Because – here’s the thing – all this is alleged to be happening during September and October of her high school senior year. All that any of these kids would be focusing on during this time would be their college applications. And, given the upper middle class San Francisco milieu, there is no way that their parents would not also be focusing obsessively on the same issue. So that, when Flannery fails her calculus test in early September, it’s just not credible that matters continue to degenerate without some parental intervention. But Handler never mentions the parents, not even to explain their continued absence.So, in the end, it’s a nice little fantasy story. But one which bears no relationship whatsoever to the real world. A fun read, but one which I will have forgotten in a month.
2940287800	I did love this book. It was s-c-a-n-d-a-l-o-u-s. There was never a dull moment. So much was happening, all the time. The writing was the best ever. Darkly hilarious and so original. But I didn't quite understand or very much like the ending. But actually, the more I think about the ending and the book in general, the cleverer I realise it is. Maybe I was expecting too much at the time. But I so wish there was more. I miss reading it already. I think I need to read it again to fully understand and appreciate how great it is.
2198770675	Let's get this out of the way: in his late twenties a man named Daniel Handler decided to write this book from the point of view of a (disturbed) teenage girl and relate her most intimate personal thoughts. Ambitious. You can immediately tell this would be a great success, huh? Not to mention the Very Realistic Dialogue; that certainly was an accurate depiction of how teenagers talk! ...? Regardless, it's a fun book. I was amused. I wanted an easy fun summer read andit delivered. Now let's criticise it.If I were to describe this book using very well known films/books to give you an idea of what it's like, I would firstly say it tries to be like "Heathers" (1988) in that it tries to recreate and satirise the atmosphere of panic around sudden tragic teen death in America, exploited by the news media and made into a distorted, melodramatic, outrageous show full of scaremongering about the adults' misguided idea of ~Peer Pressure~ and ~Drugs~ for an audience who eats it up and amplifies it, as the characters who know what happened watch uneasily. Here too, the news media presents the dead teenagers as perfect, innocent, kind, promising young people who died tragically before getting a chance to fulfill their potential. But you the reader/viewer know that the victims were pretty shitty individuals. Like "Heathers", it tries to take on the issue of homophobia but (like with "Heathers") it's hard to tell whether this story condemns homophobia or uses it for laughs and shock value. Here too the story is told in diary-of-teenage-girl format. However, Flannery is much more malicious than "Heathers"'s Veronica ever was, and remains that way until the very end of the story. Veronica has a change of heart, she makes an effort to fix what she can, to help heal her community and herself. Flannery writes bitter mean-spirited commentary on her peers from jail. Of course Veronica was never caught and she didn't act alone (+was arguably manipulated to some extent by JD). What's important is that "Heathers" makes a point of showing the healing process. "The Basic Eight" does not. I suppose this is part of what makes "Heathers" seem more self-aware.Secondly, "The Secret History" parallels stop at the very exclusive pseudo-intellectual teen clique who commits/covers up the murder of a friend. But Flan was nothing like "TSH" narrator Richard Papen. She wasn't the "new memeber" desperately trying to fit in while being mostly kept in the dark about what was happening. Also Flan acted alone and her friends were left to clean up her mess, which is not what went down in "TSH".Lastly, all the above is combined with a very particular element of "Fight Club". I'll discuss this at the end of the review.Flannery believes that what makes herself and her friends special, what sets them appart, what makes them superior, is their interests (classical music, classic lit, classical antiquity, social class--notice a pattern?) and their extensive pretentious vocabulary. As a greek person, I find it hard to be impressed by american kids who think they're superior for knowing a few things about the classics as if so many people all over the world are not familiar with greek/roman mythology/tragedy/history. Or Shakespeare. Being familiar with some of the most worldwide famous literature (and considering it "better" than anything else ever written) isn't a substitute for a personality. I digress. I'd say this superiority complex is there to balanceFlan's deep consuming insecurity about her appearance and particularly about her weight. She constantly, destructively compares her body and overall appearance to her friends'. It is telling that her only solace after she feels overshadowed by Kate is that at least "Kate is fatter" than her. But Flan doesn't seem able to objectively compare her body to others'. For all we know the opposite of what she says could be true, or they could look roughly the same. Which brings me to the fact that we can't judge any of the other characters as individuals because we only know what Flan tells us about them and Flan repeatedly proves herself pretty unreliable and inconsistent. We only know how she sees them, perhaps how she wants the reader to see them. Flan cares deeply about how she is seen by others. She needs to fix the damage to her image and we already know how far she's generally willing to go.If you don't want to know what happens yet, this is where you should stop reading."Fat" is an everpresent word. Every girl in this book seems to believe that "fat" is the worst thing she could be, that being thin or fat iswhat makes or breaks her desirability from which her self worth stems. Other girls being fatter than you makes you feel safer. This could be D. Handler trying to show how body image distortion operates in a teen girl's mind, as plenty of girls and women obsessively think about their weight (which is a systemic problem of our society that i won't go into right now). However, having read A Series of Unfortunate Events, I am aware that Handler tends to associate being fat, gender-non-conforming, and/or very feminine(regardless of gender) with being a bad person. Flan calls herself and a lot of other people fat, and the word is always charged with intense dislike. Lily believes she turned her boyfriend Douglas gay by being fat (=unattractive). Another unatractivething Flan mentions she'd hate to be, next to fat, is "a lesbian". Nice. Flan also has another great "f" word reserved for Douglas. After coming out, Douglas keeps making gay jokes and puns about himself and, as a lesbian, I can confirm is 100% realistic, yes us queers in fact do that a lot. Apparently Douglas also called Lily a "fat bitch" during a fight, so I guess Handler (intentionally or not) did get the misogyny present in many gay men right. Speaking of gay, there's Ron the drama teacher. I understand that it adds to the shock value of the plot ('cause Adam's croquet mallet murder wasn't enough) to accuse the gay teacher of being a predatory pedophile (how original!), but if this was truly a criticism to how damn fast conservative parents would jump to lynch the (actually innocent) gay teacher and burn his house down, I wish it was more clearly presented as criticism to homophobia, especially with the f-word being thrown around so much at Ron and at Douglas in different contexts. Which brings me to Natasha. Natasha is the element from "Fight Club" I mentioned. She is Flan's respective Tyler Durden. She is her ideal self, she is what Flan wantsto be like deep down: sexually liberated, thin, hot, "glamorous", bold, sassy, unafraid, always "cool". There's the dissonance: people who appear "cool" like Natasha aren't usually bffs with girls like Flannery Culp. Why does she love Flan so much? And why can't people tell them appart when they look nothing alike? They're the same person. During the hellish delirium of that last garden party they become indiscernible. All the things Natasha says and does are the things Flan wishes she could say and do, though sometimes it's unclear if Flan actually voices/does them or just thinks them. So Flan-tasha calls Douglas the f-word when he acts too horrified and emotional about stuffing Adam's body in the trunk of the car. Nat had also spoken negatively about Douglas being gay earlier in the book.Remember when Flan was trying to convince herself that she was fine with her ex coming out as gay? Turns out it's safe to say she at least feels conflicted about it.Interestingly, Natasha thinks very highly of Gabriel whereas Flan doesn't so much. Flan also makes a few weird comments about Gabriel being black (the one involvingthe phrase "applying whiteface" being the most cringeworthy of all). Just... why? In the end, Flan isn't supposed to be likeable, a good person or a role model, but some things really weren't necessary. To conclude, fun book. Less fun the older you are.
162054074	Yet another book I was drawn to because of comparisons with The Secret History, though in fact, it has a lot more in common with Special Topics in Calamity Physics - not least the fact that it has a somewhat annoying protagonist with a stupid name. Flannery Culp (!) is our narrator, and at the beginning we learn that a) she's in prison and b) her high-school friendship group, the Basic Eight, has become notorious. True to the usual form of this type of book, the story then flips back to the beginning and we find out what happened to lead to this outcome. Like Special Topics' Blue, Flannery has a unique and sometimes confusing narrative voice; the book is made up of her old diaries, except she's constantly amending them as she goes along, so at certain points she will describe an incident and then admit that it didn't really happen at the time, but needed to be inserted to make a point or properly introduce a character. She also plays with language, using a lot of metaphors/similies, allegories, rhymes, alliteration and so on. There's a lot of parodic humour in small details (for example Flannery reading a 'Stephen Queen' book called 'The Salem Slot', the Basic Eight being discussed on the 'Winnie Moprah' show) and deviation from typical formats (she transcribes conversations, lapses into Shakespearean verse and adds 'study questions' to the end of some of her chapters). You have to suspend your disbelief about lots of things to enjoy this book. The Basic Eight are like no group of high school kids you've ever known - they throw lavish dinner parties, form a club to listen to opera, say things like 'I've been craving noir' and embark on a mission to procure absinthe because drugs are too 'uncouth'. Their parents are almost completely absent from the story; Flannery's don't appear once, even though a significant chunk of the action takes place at her house. It's also impossible to believe that anyone would actually write a diary like this, and at first I found the style really jarring, but it got much more enjoyable as I went along and became accustomed to it. I guessed the twist regarding Natasha some time before it was revealed, but I still loved the reveal itself; I love unreliable narrators and twists that skew everything you've just read, and this was a beautifully executed example. The climactic party was also brilliantly depicted, vividly painted as a kind of Bacchanalian nightmare; this was definitely the best, and most effective, part of the book. Unfortunately, the scenes that came after it were a bit too jumbled, and although they did a good job of communicating Flannery's disorientation, I found the hysterical dialogue irritating.One of my problems with the narrative was that Flannery didn't read like a girl for much of the story - not until the sex scenes, really. I realised this a short way through the book, without even thinking about the fact that the author is male, after wondering for a while exactly what it was I wasn't sure about but couldn't put my finger on. She's supposed to be in love with Adam but writes little about why, or makes any mention of what he looks like - okay, he's 'gorgeous', but that's it, no detail. Meanwhile there's constant stuff about how beautiful and beguiling her female friends are. For a while I wondered if this was deliberate, but if so then it wasn't resolved in any way; apart from her feelings of desire watching Natasha undress, but given the final revelations about Natasha, this scene appeared to have an altogether different significance. And as it took me a long time to believe in Flannery as a female character, it took me a similar amount of time to actually like her. Weirdly, I felt warmer towards her after the murder had taken place, and wished her voice hadn't been cut off at the end.I'm probably being really unfair by reading books like this, as they're doomed from the start by the fact that I already know nothing is ever going to live up to The Secret History. I liked it, but I kept wishing the narrative would just settle down; that it would stop being so self-conscious. I'd probably have enjoyed it more if it didn't have associations with other, better books in my mind - it was funny and entertaining but I didn't find the characters sympathetic or entirely believable, and although it made me laugh at numerous points, it didn't have the sharp feel of a proper satire. It took until I was more than three-quarters of the way through for me to really feel compelled to keep reading, and because the date of the party - Halloween - is signposted throughout the book as the climax, and it's written in diary format, it does feel like a lot of what comes before this is just scene-setting. Still, it eventually overcame its obvious influences to charm me, and another thing this book has in common with Special Topics is that while I found a lot of faults in it, by the end I wanted more. Imperfect but worth reading; a 3.5, even a 3.75 maybe, but not quite a 4.
1350167907	This book is quite the unique story. Told through diary entries, Flannery Culp is writing a book explaining how events leading up to the death of classmate Adam State unfolded. It's interesting to have a murder mystery where you know right from the get-go who did it. The question for this book is "why?". So it's definitely fun to see how we get there. Flannery and her friend circle known as the Basic Eight are a very unlikable group. Many people compare this book to Heathers and I can definitely see the similarities with the dark humor and the exclusive "in" group. Overall, a very unique take on the mystery genre and definitely different from Handler's other books.
4753597463	I almost didn’t keep reading this because of how offensively the narrator discussed race and sexuality. Then I read some reviews that talked about how unreliable the narrator is, so I pressed on. After finishing, I liked it, but I don’t think the unreliability of the narrator is an excuse for the racism and homophobia sprinkled in her narration in a manner it seems the white author is trying to play for laughs. I enjoyed the book in other ways, but I don’t recommend.
6421892318	if i had read this four years ago it would have seared me to my core but i am older now. that said the climactic sequence was so gripping i had to sit outside the grocery store and finish it before i shopped and overall i do think it made me just a smidgeon more insane
11345043	As soon as I finished this book I turned back to the beginning and read it again. I loved it. It has all the silliness of A Series of Unfortunate Events, but reworked for an older crowd. Yeah, I knew what the twist was going to be long before it was revealed, but the reveal was still great.
7443854503	This book is the Secret History meets Fight Club. Or, This book is what the secret history could have been if it took itself zero percent seriously and the author wasn’t still transparently half enamored with the exact brand of pretension the book is attempting to ridicule, meeting a Fight Club with crazy teenage girlsI liked it better than both of those books though, because it was funny, and about high schoolers. I think the level of self delusion and life or death drama could have only really worked with an adolescent narrator, I found MOST of the whole absurd thing (the murder, the escalation, the parties) totally plausible. It read not unlike my diary from the same years. However, there is a big twist I saw coming from a mile away and I am almost certain the author decided on it midway through and did very little editing to the first half of the novel to make it fit seamlessly. I believe he felt his consciously unreliable narrator’s conscious unreliability would be enough to smooth over the little plot holes, but I just didn’t buy it. I could SEE the moment Handler started slipping clues in, and instead of everything coming together as a shock in the last few pages as I suspect he intended it, the reveal feels clumsy and anticlimactic. Like, oh, yeah, I saw this coming but I was hoping you wouldn’t be so lazy. That being said it was still a really fun laugh out loud read, and a great follow up to Eliza Clark’s Penance, to which it feels very related. Handler’s sense of humor pretty much always works for me.
2358304475	Very rarely do I give up on a book. I usually push through, hate reading just so I can say I finished it. But I’m starting to realize life is too short to read books you don’t enjoy. This book wasn’t for me- almost 50% done and not engaged by any of the dozens of characters, the main characters desperate attempts at elitist wittiness, just boring. I know I would never be friends with a group like this when I was a teenager and I don’t enjoy reading about them either, fictional as they may be.
4182882684	The unreliable narration in the book, the structure, and that twist at the end are truly inspirational to me as a writer. I cannot exaggerate enough how much this book blew me away. The characterization, the dialogue, the humor, the tension, all of it was phenomenal.
1520184062	Extremely dark comedy from Daniel Handler. I was very entertained by this wicked, twisted book.
1082942053	EVERYBODY. GO. READ. IT. NOW.
321016	Another book that would have gotten 5 stars if not for the weirdbad twist ending...
4049202042	Almost DNF’d but ended up skipping a huge section of the middle and finishing it. The read was pretty hard, mostly bc of the prose and the fact that the narrator is so unreliable that it detracts from the story. Skipping the middle did not detract from the plot, which shows me that the book is way too long for what it is…
4526549590	You’re telling me Lemony Snicket wrote this????
7817101647	funnnnn!! kept me on my toes. so kreative erzählstrukturen: die oper, die essay questions, die dialoge/monologe mit Psycholog:innen. geil
2544136945	HOLY CRAP BALLS THIS BOOK IS SO GOOD!!!!!
3126870364	Amazing! Secret History-esque but maybe better.
3362741283	This book had me cackling out loud. Smartly written and hugely nostalgic for me. Highly entertaining read. Flannery Culp is such a twisted character and I loved her from start to finish. 4.2 stars.
2880318587	This book is a masterpiece. I started it thinking it would be a nice book to read, not a mindblowing one. I'm honestly flabbergasted. Daniel Handler created a masterpiece and you should all read it!!!
693794700	I really dug this book, late as I was getting to read it. It’s not The Secret History, don’t listen to anybody who says it is. I loved The Secret History, but that was denser, more baroque and creepier than The Basic Eight. Plus, I read Secret History when I was younger (as did you, probably) and more impressionable. If The Secret History is the Dead Poets Society of high school murder novels, all elevating, meaningful, emotional and shit, The Basic Eight is, I don’t know, Brick, with more energy and less noir.The novel is ostensibly a self-edited version of a daily(ish) journal of Flannery Culp’s senior year of high school, during which Flannery killed a classmate. She is remarkably insouciant about the whole deal, and my theory about that is that if you have as cool a name as “Flannery Culp,” Insouciance is probably your middle name. The novel is Flannery telling the story of that killing.What’s groovy about the book: There’s a lot. The writing is terrific. I mean things like pace, dialogue, what’s said and not said, but mostly I mean there are some turns of phrase throughout that are real gems. And they’re not flicked into the narrative as one-liners or comedy relief; the story is told in a very engaging and impressive way. There’s,You’d think that sweet would be a land far, far away from irritating, but as it turns out they’re right next door, and always having border disputes.And then also,I felt like the Egyptians must have when the rivers had already turned to blood and the cattle had all died: Ho hum, locusts. Guess Ahmed wins the plague pool.I mentioned “what’s said and not said.” You learn as much about Flannery and her friends (high school clique; exclusive “club,” weird and variable intrapersonal relationships within; yeah, that’s where the Secret History idea comes from) from how Flannery says certain things and by what she isn’t saying as you do from the narrative taken at face value. It’s a technique that’s hard to pull off successfully, often it ends up seeming like the author is playing hide the ball so he can spring an artificial gotcha on you. That’s not the case here.And as far as the story? We know from page one that Flannery killed her friend Adam State, so this isn’t a whodunit. We don’t have much of a problem imagining why she did it, in general, as the story proceeds. We know the consequences, because Flannery is “editing” her senior year journal from confinement. And yet, withholding any spoilers, just let me say that if you stick with the story through to the end, you’ll be rewarded.
392829558	I'm glad there are a lot of people who can see similarities in this book with the 1989 movie Heathers, whether it would be the use of croquet in both mediums, the rich self-titled cliques that are Heathers and the Basic Eight, the narrator that shares Veronica Sawyer's subtle wit, sharp observance, and intelligence, or the murders that take the lives of people of the high school. I always thought I made outlandish comparisons, just so that when I talk about the book, I have some sort of ground that I could cover first before digging in.Flannery Culp isn't a striking character. At first, I got the impression that she was a bit of a loner in her group of friends as the introduction starts out with her talking about Solitaire and her love for poets (though we see, just as in the beginning, that the Solitaire also takes on a meta-metaphorical meaning and while she does love poetry, she does not know the ones below the popular surface). However, with her friends, they make up what I thought to be a blob of bland. With the exception of Natalie (whose character purposely stood out, I believe), the Basic Eight were a bunch of friends who you never find out why they were friends in the first place. You're also not sure where they stand among the high school crowd - are they admired or disliked? We know that they aren't the average group of adolescents - they throw dinner parties and voluntarily listen to operas. However, the mystery of the characters, especially after the climax of the book, makes it fall short of leaving an aftertaste.Three stars doesn't really justify how careful and great this book is written. It's a fantastic piece of literature, and I feel that in the details, there are some parts that makes it look as if a teenager has written this (I'm not sure if the absence of the oxford comma is on purpose or not, but how about the part where she is able to comment on her writing to justify her past self?) How the story unfolds, unfortunately, leaves a lot to be desired.
974159288	Other than a high school clique and murder, The Basic Eight doesn't have a lot in common with Heathers, one of my favorite high school movies. The cover is rather misleading. There is a croquet mallet, but well...I enjoyed the first half of the novel. The Basic Eight are a group of elitist drama geeks -- what my group of friends might have been like had we lived in San Francisco with rich parents, instead of growing in a podunk town in Washington state with much more limited means. These kids have dinner parties with absinthe, whereas we had "gatherings" that involved me classing up box mac'n'cheese by adding actual cheddar. The narrator, Flannery, is sarcastic and funny, while also being clueless in that special teenage way. The novel is written as if Flannery (now serving time for murder) is editing her diary for publication, writing her hindsight into the pages, adding vocabulary and discussion questions at the end of each week or so. It's all very witty.Then it just kind of falls apart. Some passages are written by Flannery when she is under the influence of various intoxicants, so they are fittingly disjointed and confused, but it all gets to be too much. And the "twist"? I saw that coming so early that after a while I thought I must be wrong. Ugh. (view spoiler)[The whole alternate personality/imaginary friend thing: If this book was written before Fight Club, I would cut it more slack, but it was written two years after. Flannery says that reading back through her diary that it all made sense. It doesn't. (hide spoiler)] And the ending is so abrupt. ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
42211583	“The Basic Eight” is the debut novel from Daniel Handler, who has gone on to achieve much greater fame (at least so far) under his pseudonym, Lemony Snicket. It is a compelling story about the lives of a clique of bored, self-absorbed, too-smart San Francisco-area high school students.“TBE” is told journal entry-style from the perspective of one Flannery Culp. We learn right off the bat that Flannery has been incarcerated for a heinous, headline-grabbing murder that somehow involved her and her seven friends, a.k.a. the Basic Eight. Because this event is so notorious, you as the reader are thrust in as if you should already know what transpired and who the central figures are. You don’t, of course, so what I liked was not only learning how Flannery explains what came to pass, why it happened, and who was involved, but also reading between the lines of Flannery’s explanations to ferret out what may have actually occurred.Although the action takes place largely in a high school and its surrounding environs, there’s lots of sex, drugs and rock n’ roll, so this is not a novel for kids or many young adults. It’s satiric, to be sure, but it’s also very much a dark comedy- and sometimes just dark.
4141106008	É... acho que vou me aposentar DE VEZ na ala young adult da literatura ocidental.Não sei se eu sou muito crítica ou se o livro foi muito ruim, mas vou deixar aqui registrado com toda sinceridade do mundo o que eu achei (dividido em tópicos!)• Estrutura narrativa: gostei muito das interações com o leitor, as quebras na linha do tempo e os questionários ao final de cada capítulo. Muito criativo. Acho que esse é o único ponto forte do livro.• Personagens: uma versão caricata de todo adolescente insuportável que acredita que a cultura erudita dignifica o homem. Gostar de jantares, óperas, peças de teatro, escrever poesia e música clássica é tão prepotente e petulante que eu NÃO conseguia evitar de revirar os olhos toda vez que algum deles usava uma referência pseudo-culta.• Enredo: a premissa é interessante, mas o autor não conseguiu explorar nada. A maior parte do livro são adolescentes arrogantes, nada acontece, feijoada. Se eu quisesse ficar vendo adolescente fazendo adolescentiezice, eu pedia pro meu irmão mais novo contar as fofocas dele.A revelação final foi a coisa mais preguiçosa de todas. O AUGE dos cliches. Mirou em ilha do medo, acertou em qualquer filme de terror meia boca que força plot twist.• Outros adendos: a quantidade de momentos racistas, gordofóbicos e homofóbicos é chocante. Uma palhaçada. Não recomendo. Passe longe. Sextou.
4465691288	the only logical conclusion to take from this book is that if the person u fancy doesnt like u back the recourse is to “beat them to death with a croquet mallet”my fav part is defo when the narrator has a conversation with the guy she likes (adam) and the she word for word repeats the exact same conversation and description with a guy that likes her (gabriel). the fact she’s supposedly writing from prison is also fun, as are the snarky questions at the end of each chapterSTUDY QUESTIONS:1. What is the meaning of the word ‘unreliable’? Would you trust an unreliable person with your favourite book? Would you trust an unreliable person with your dog? Would you trust an unreliable person with your life?2. Do you consider yourself a reliable person?3. Is Flannery Culp a good name? Is Lemony Snicket a good name? Is your name a good name?4. What is your opinion on twist endings? Do they enhance or cheapen your enjoyment of film, television or literature? 5. Did the 37 publishers that rejected this book prior to publication do the right thing to Mr. Handler? Did Mr Handler do the right thing to the 37 publishers that rejected this book? Did Mr. Handler do the right thing to Mr. Snicket? Did Mr. Snicket do the right thing to Mr. Handler? Questions like this will reoccur throughout the book.
546950198	This was a tough book to rate and I'm really all over the place in how I feel about it. First of all, Daniel Handler did an excellent job with character development and managed to climb into the brain of a scattered high school girl in a way that most men (and quite frankly, a lot of women) couldn't.I was riveted at first, then about 150 pages in got bored and thought I'd just jump ahead to the murder (this is not a spoiler, the back blurb mentions the murder). As I was looking for the murder, I wondered how certain things had come together further along in the story and ended up reading all the way through.The big reveal at the end was something that I had suspected from about the point where I initially got impatient. Then I decided that Handler wouldn't do that so I kept going, then I knew he'd done it and was disappointed, then there was the reveal as I expected. A shame, really, but a well-executed shame.With that said, Handler's caustic wit is very present throughout the story and I was impressed how he interwove Othello into the plot. At the end of each chapter there are vocabulary words and study question which were hilarious.Sooo, I'm not sure. Great book with a twist that I realized way too soon and that made it a bit disappointing. Still, an incredible character study of a high school girl who is a bit unhinged.
2117867016	But for Flan, her strife has only just begun;She kills the boy October thirty-one.Ohoho, this was delicious y'all! A little bit Heathers, a little bit Secret History, a little bit Fight Club, but all Daniel Handler wit & charm. I officially think this particular subgenre of 'school slice-of-life + murder + an unreliable narrator' is my favorite genre in all of contemporary literature... and this particular reiteration checks aaaalllll the boxes. It's devourable and instantly leaves you wanting to read again - just about midway through I figured out the big ~reveal~ & literally started over right from the beginning because I was so thrilled with how clever it is. Flannery Culp might usurp Amy Dunne now for my favorite merry murderess POV, but just about every character feels real and fleshed out - particularly Douglas, oh sweet Douglas. & the prose! I knew Daniel Handler could write, but man, can this boy write. The crescendo at the garden party was so stressful and frantic, the repetitions and twitches in Flan's perspective throughout, the grand reveal at the end - it was all SO. MAGNIFICENT.
1299234892	Wow. What can I even say? This book what an absolute wild ride from start to finish. First of all, I was surprised by how funny it it. But I guess I should have expected such incredible writing from the man behind Lemony Snicket and the Series of Unfortunate Events. I was also pretty impressed that Handler was able to create such a convincing female protagonist. I was completely fascinated by Flannery as an unreliable narrator and I'm pretty proud of myself for guessing the twist ending. Handler's writing had so much detail and depth that I was completely swept away by this story and the characters. By the end of the book, I felt like I too was a member of the Basic Eight, caught up in the mysterious as much as any of the characters. This book had just the right amount suspense and drama, as it had typical YA romance and humor. I also loved the stylized version of a journal Handler uses to convey the story. The discussion questions for each chapter had me actually laughing out loud. Overall, I really enjoyed The Basic Eight and will definitely be reading more of the YA works of Daniel Handler.
231714810	“The Basic Eight” is a satire that pokes fun at the high school experience through Flannery, the main character, by taking the regular hardships faced by teenage girls to the extreme with murder. English classes are hit the hardest for critique with study questions included for the reader within the story. Handler uses a diary style type of writing entrusting the reader with Flannery’s innermost thoughts on the events that occurred preceding her being accused of murder. By doing this he leaves the reader lacking suspicion of any surprises even though the book is not straightforward. This inserts an air of mystery to the story that manages to keep the reader attached to the book until the very end. Even though Handler was writing from the opposite sex he was able to portray a teenage girl and her regular day-to-day experiences realistically allowing myself to be fully engrossed within the actual story. So, writing from a perspective that is totally opposite from your own is very possible.
3561201661	Nunca tive uma experiência tão ruim com um livro. Embora o último 1/4 do livro tenha dado uma leve melhorada e conduzido até que bem a um plot twist clichê (já não esperava muito a esse ponto) todo o resto do livro é muuuuito chato, em todos os aspectos: os personagens apesar de diferentes entre si não cativam, o enredo é muito parado e inclusive a escrita do autor não me agradou.
1876137215	After loving Tana French’s The Likeness, I read that Donna Tart’s The Secret History and Daniel Handler’s The Basic Eight were similar, and I immediately put them on my TBR. I never made it all the way through A Series of Unfortunate Events, but it was more because I wandered off to other things than because I didn’t like it, and I loved Why We Broke Up.Flannery Culp is a murderess, but she insists you hear her side of the story. As she goes back through the journals chronicling her senior year of high school, Flannery tells about her group of pretentious friends, The Basic Eight, and their adventures listening to opera, hosting dinner parties, experimenting with absinthe and, oh, trying to conceal a murder (or two).This book is not what I was expecting, and I’m not sure there is a way to market it for what it actually is, if such a thing can be pinned down. I couldn’t begin to compare it to anything else, which is definitely a compliment toward its originality. While I can see where the comparison to The Likeness comes from–they’re both about pretentious friend groups and murder–the two are completely different in tone and spirit and also attempt to do completely different things. Other than the basic subject, I wouldn’t say they had much in common.Between Flannery and Natasha, there are some powerhouse females in this novel, and they’re the strongest characters in the book. The males are much weaker/flatter, which is a nice change from the opposite. It’s easy to like Natasha, the friend with “panache”, and I loved how she was constantly defending Flannery and putting down Flan’s love interest, Adam State, who obviously doesn’t deserve her. Flan is more complicated. In fact, she’s one of the most deliciously complicated female characters I’ve encountered in a while. She’s not exactly likable–she spends a lot of time wallowing in drunken self-pity–but she is witty, occasionally fierce, and a little lost, which is a good description of most people in high school.The rest of the characters suffer by comparison, and this was one place where I was a little sorry that the story was being filtered through Flannery’s perspective. Besides Natasha, she doesn’t see most of them very clearly, which means the reader can’t either. I’m hard-pressed to tell Lily and Jennifer Rose Milton apart, with V___ and Kate standing out only slightly more. I wanted more insight into the rest of the Basic Eight, which I never really got.Flan is the definition of an unreliable narrator, which has downsides for character development, but is fun narratively as we’re constantly having to doubt the story we’re being told. Her sentences are often rambling or unnecessarily complicated though, and I mostly skimmed the tedious excerpts of talk shows. Her discussion questions at the end of some sections are often funny. They don’t force the reader to make moral judgments about the characters and their actions so much as bring it to our attention that we’re already doing that, which is probably the most postmodern thing I’ve ever seen in a YA novel. I guessed the plot twist and then got a little mad at myself for guessing it. Can my brain never just enjoy things without picking them apart? –No, that’s why I write book reviews.The Basic Eight is interesting and well-done, but the thing I didn’t care for is the same thing that wears on me in the Series of Unfortunate Events television show. I can only take so much dry, tongue-in-cheek humor, bitter satire, and general cynicism. As an overall tone for the novel, it gets exhausting quickly. Irony is another tried and true element of postmodernism, and it’s one that I believe has run its course–into the ground. Handler’s sly commentary on how removed adults are from teenagers’ actual experiences and his parodies of talk shows and sensationalized news are funny, but not necessarily apt. The adults in this novel are caricatures who, if they notice that something is going on at all, only ever manage to make it worse. I don’t care for that much irony and cynicism as a general worldview, but for a novel, I suppose it’s entertaining in small doses. This is not the kind of book I’ll easily forget, and it may be the sort of thing I end up liking more over time.I review regularly at brightbeautifulthings.tumblr.com.
3487955116	** spoiler alert ** DNF'ed it around the 70 page mark. I really wanted to like this but this book was way too wordy, pretentious and interrupted my train of thought with its oh-so-clever snarkiness and sarcasm. Seriously, if the protagonist wasn't the murderer, she was certainly encouraging me to become one because I couldn't stand her voice. While I admire Daniel Handler's writing style as Lemony Snicket, this book was way too pretentious for its own good. The protagonist kept interrupting herself every few sentences to quote something clever she thought of or to praise herself for being so clever. None of the characters felt even remotely believable. Everyone was just a stereotype and there were even names like "Winnie Moprah" and "Stephen Queen". The format was confusing and could generally have been better if the story just played out as it is instead of having so many conflicting voices and a protagonist who kept over analyzing her words on every page. In short, this book reminded me so much of some Dark Academia fanfiction I would write at 14 years old without an editor helping me. It reminds me of fanfic so much because every few seconds the fanfic author would write stuff like "tee hee. This is the best part!" or "sorry guys XD I was busy with school so I'll update soon!!" or "hot smexy scene upcoming! uWu" You're better off reading My Immortal, that iconic Harry Potter fanfic from your nightmares instead of this pretentious nonsense.
4330986984	4.5a história é bastante ok mas isso não importa porque o melhor aspecto desse livro é justamente a forma como ele é escrito e construído. há muitas camadas (o diário, o que é escrito por cima explícita e implicitamente, o que não é dito, o que não aconteceu de verdade, etc) então a leitura acaba sendo muito interessante e instigante. no fim, o que fica é a sensação de tem algumas pessoas mais erradas que outras, obviamente, mas ninguém tá certo, e isso é muito incrível. no final tem um plot twist que é extremamente previsível, até acaba sendo um plot twist mais pra protagonista em si, e é muito massa acompanhar isso. enfim, muito muito interessante e divertido, só não dei cinco estrelas porque, por ser uma leitura que acaba demandando bastante análise (não uma vibe reflexões filosóficas profundas, só análise das palavras, frases, vozes, etc) ele acabou sendo um pouco cansativo, mas de resto muito legal, recomendo mto
2207240530	I have NO idea what I just read! It wasn’t a mystery. It didn’t really have a plot. This was about teenagers at an elite private school that have lavish parties and don’t really understand that there is consequences to their actions. It sounds like a psychological thriller but it’s more just a psychological look at these teens. I really liked the satiric parts but I’m left really wondering if it was worth it!
2721528273	Definitely got a Heathers vibe off of this, and it’s really well written. Once you know about the plot twist it’s plastered all over the book, so it’s definitely worth rereading. I also liked how unreliable the narrator is throughout.
5776176297	Me parece una mezcla entre Heathers y Harrow de Ninth y, al igual que estos, a pesar de que se me hacen muy interesantes como concepto, tengo sentimientos encontrados.Seguí leyendo el libro aunque no me estaba resultando especialmente entretenido (tampoco aburrido) porque tenía curiosidad por qué pasaba el 31 oct y, curiosamente, fue la parte que más insufrible se me hizo. Por otra parte, los capítulos tras este evento sí que me gustaron.En resumen, es un libro curioso y entiendo tanto a la gente que le flipa este libro, como a la que no lo soporta.
829661337	this was some black swan level shit
2307199729	** spoiler alert ** A twist in the end makes you reread and rethink, loved it. Some things just do not ring totally true, though, even upon rereading. Who was Natasha talking to? Were there any clues at all?
6010268428	Had to take a reading break to watch Gilmore Girls (lol). Back at it now. I liked this but I hate when I get fooled for a whole book!!! (hate in a not-actually-hate way)
2617642653	I have to put a standby on a review for this one. I hated it and I loved it and I still don’t know which one wins.
2465327048	I loved the writing of this book so much that I don’t even care that I’d guessed the big reveal a third of the way through the book. And that’s a lot of love.
6649304241	I do not have time to read mediocre books.
2752652530	Coffees and parties and murders, oh my! This is a contemporary tale of teenage degeneracy with a heeping helping of detached snark and sneering pretention. It was great!
4980266679	Saw the plot twist coming from a mile away but Daniel Handler (Lemony Snicket) said “series of unfortunate circumstances” or something to that effect so it was a worthwhile read for me
2964622530	3.5
6847382693	Yes, there are some plot holes, yes it’s perhaps a little long, but what a creative feat for one of his first books. Handler (Snicket, as I’ve previously known him) writes in a very “cool” way, for lack of a better word. This is a less refined example of that style we know and love
4092838865	hmm.. I really loved this book for the first 260 pages, but then it started to meander, which is so frustrating because those final 100 pages contained nearly all the action and the final big twist. Spoilers ahead, specifically for that big twist. I love reverse whodunnits (whydunnits? howdunnits?) and this book falls in line with that sub-genre next to The Secret History--one of my all time favorites--but it misses the best part of a good reverse mystery: the aftermath. If you've read this book (and if you haven't, stop reading this review and go read it for yourself before I start spoiling), you'll know that it's impossible to not compare it to Donna Tartt's The Secret History so bear with me as I make the same comparisons nearly every other slightly underwhelmed reader is making. In TSH, Tartt spends a while introducing and developing her characters until we grow attached to them, then she ruins their lives one by one as the deal with the aftermath of the murder of a fellow classmate (that they committed-- it's not a spoiler, it's the first page of the novel). In The Basic Eight, our narrator--more on her later--Flannery Culp, takes her sweet time chronicling the first semester of her senior year day-by-day until all of a sudden, she's murdered her crush, Adam State, and then the book is over. Handler hastily introduces a twist--an imaginary friend? oh my!--then a clinical epilogue written by a fictitious psychiatrist wraps it all up, barely tying all the loose ends. To be fair to both Flan and Handler, the novel is presented as Flan's journal, which she's editing from prison, so the day-by-day nature of the narrative is perfectly warranted. However, the extremely rushed and simultaneously meandering ending cannot be excused by this structure; it's lazy (or perhaps novice, I believe this was Handler's debut) writing. I wanted to watch the Basic Eight fall apart as they dealt with Flan's confession to the murder and the media storm that followed, which editing Flan mentions gratuitously throughout the story. I wanted to see Flan grapple with (SPOILERS FOR THE BIG REVEAL) the realization that her friend and confidante Natasha is merely a figment of her imagination. I wanted the trial. I wanted Flan's incarceration. Overall, I wanted more character, which brings me to my biggest criticism of The Basic Eight: I believe that Handler was juggling too many characters. Flan, Natasha, Lily, V__, Kate, Douglas, Gabriel, Adam, Flora. Of those nine characters, only Flan and Natasha feel developed. Adam is introduced to us as a sweet guy, but he devolves into a major douche with little rhyme or reason. In his final moments before his death, he was being an absolute asshole and I was thoroughly flummoxed because this wasn't the Adam I was introduced to initially. The development that should have gotten us from Point A (nice Adam) to Point B (dick Adam) didn't happen and you can't blame that on Flan being an unreliable narrator. It's a crutch for poor writing. Lily and Douglas fade into the background after it's revealed that Douglas is gay. V__ is more prominently featured at the end of the novel because she hosts the party where Adam is killed but other than being rich and wearing pearls, we know close to nothing about her as a person. Those last three words are what's missing most from these characters. We don't know them as people. Even if we're getting them through the whateverfuckingcolor tinted glasses of Flannery Culp's journal, she still viewed them as people and therefore so should we. They're all very flat. Maybe Kate is more developed than I'm giving her credit for, but there are just too many characters and too little development for me to fully remember. Returning to Flan, our narrator, I will grant Handler credit here for crafting a character who was wholly pretentious, self-centered, and by all counts, fucking obnoxious, and still making me enjoy reading her narration. I'm not quite sure how he achieved that, but my guess is that it had something to do with the fact that she didn't get away with the murder, so she couldn't be as smug as she perhaps wanted to be. All that said, I'd still give this book 4 stars because I genuinely could not put it down. I did have to slog through the ending but I was still relatively engaged and I predict that I'll be thinking about it for a few days more, so I would recommend picking it up. It's smart in its execution, the writing is good, the tone is properly unnerving, and the story is fun.
2310950714	Mesmo com a premissa batida, (adolescente, drogas, limites, excessos e tal) tinha tudo para ser bom, interessante... Mas sinceramente? Não foi.O autor se perdeu feio em tantos momentos cruciais que nem a mente mais brilhante conseguiria reverter os efeitos arrastados, confusos e sem pé nem cabeça da estória. Narrado em forma de diário, fiquei com impressão que a tentativa era 'inovar', conseguindo apenas ser chatoooooZZzzzZZ... Desencanto foi tanto que não fiquei com vontade conhecer mais trabalhos desse autor... ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ #NEXT3.5 Estrelas, 3 Corações e 1 autor a menos na lista.
3753315260	Talvez 2.5
3486164904	well that was an absolute ride
608572544	High school can be killer. Only for Flannery Culp, that’s not an overused cliché. Flannery takes offense to the pack of lies the media has been telling everyone: that she’s an occultist murderer who killed a promising young man for no reason. She’s not an occultist. And she had a perfectly good reason. From Daniel Handler- more commonly known by the pen name he writes children’s literature under, Lemony Snicket- comes a dark comedy revolving around the pathetically pretentious Flannery Culp, convicted murderess, and her equally pretentious high school clique, the Basic Eight. The story is told from Flannery’s point of view as she, now in prison, goes back and edits her journals from her first few weeks of senior year in high school. And in those weeks, Flan and her friends are everything to each other, meeting every week to listen to opera, rehearse plays, plan dinner parties, and drink absinthe, and while everyone has their own little private dramas, Flan’s life is pretty okay, if it weren’t for the fact that she was hopelessly in love with a boy she wrote letters to all summer. But that’s no biggie. It’s not like it’s a life or death situation. The story that follows is a roller coaster of adolescent dramedy as Flannery in the present edits Flannery in the past in order to unravel how she went from normal as it gets in the Basic Eight to the most famous teenage criminal in America. You are along for the ride as crushes get out of hand, parties get too wild, and you are routinely stopped to check for grammatical correctness. After all, Flan is, above all, a writer. Written with charming voice and littered with clever allusions, Flan quickly becomes your new best friend, never mind the murder. Handler has a wonderful grasp on the teenage mind and plays riffs on the idea of teen culture, peer pressure, and media hype. Satire dances playfully alongside astute social critique as Flan and her friends whirl out of control, unsupervised, unchallenged, unstoppable. (Well, until the media makes a frenzy of one little crime.) Handler brings to light the importance of friendship and solidarity in a way so dark and heartbreaking that it makes the most brutal scenes in the book some of the most heartfelt as the group bands together- and falls apart- in ferocious way that only teenagers who love each other can. Meanwhile, he pokes fun at both liberal and conservative ideologies surrounding the idea of the ubiquitous “teen”, proposing the groundbreaking idea that maybe teens are nothing more than human beings trying their best, same as anyone. This is beautifully underscored by the cast he creates of unforgettably quirky, artsy kids, as likely to quote Shakespeare ad nauseum as have drunken orgies. These teens are truly the epitome of teenagehood, not in their taste for high culture (even their booze of choice is red wine) but in their efforts to be as adult and independent as possible. All of which takes a dark turn in light of the foregone conclusion that their efforts, misdirected and misunderstood by completely absent parents and unhelpful teachers, result in the worst possible end for a teen drama. One of the book’s final, darkly ironic notes is that in light of everything else, Flan is concerned most of all that she has disappointed her teachers. In the midst of this heavy but comedically handled whirlwind of a high school narrative, Handler also takes time to runs circles around literary convention. Flan becomes increasingly unreliable in a way that would make Salinger proud, confusing herself with her best friend at points, and her past and present selves often tripping over each other to the point that you feel like you too have had too much of your parents’ champagne. Handler also has a keen grasp of the female mind, not simply the teenage. Flan comes alive, with painfully realistic awkwardness and worries over boys, her weight, her friends’ weight, gossip, and whether she is independent and bold enough as a woman, and describes them in such familiar, gossipy ways that it’s hard at times to realize that a man, not a teenage girl, is the actual author of the work. While dark and at times drunkenly surreal, The Basic Eight is one of the most shocking and bloody brilliant coming of age stories, raising important questions that every teenage girl has asked herself, like: if you could, wouldn’t you just kill him?
3006795581	...what did i just read
939059796	Fight Club ruined a lot of books for me.I found The Basic Eight on a list of postmodern books, or maybe a list of unreliable narrators, I'm not sure. I have read Daniel Handler's Why We Broke Up (really liked it) and the first Lemony Snicket book (liked it well enough) so this seemed like a no-brainer for me. Books with odd narrative structures, meta-textual tricks, or postmodern narrators are what I live for.I was surprised how hard this one was for me to get into. The format is great -- the entire story is framed as a high school journal that is being typed up (and heavily edited) in the modern day by its author, the now 20-year-old Flannery Culp. In a parody of high school English courses, each chapter ends with three or four study group questions and a list of vocabulary words, many of which I'm pretty sure are nowhere in their corresponding chapters. The tone of the study questions was reminiscent of GLaDOS from the Portal games, sort of formal and businesslike with a layer of malice and sarcasm hiding underneath. The framing device of having the diary entries written in real time but the editorial comments written later gives an extremely unreliable tone to the story, as Flannery inserts foreshadowing into the narration and sometimes even ends a story by confessing that it never happened, or not quite like that. These slippery twists and turns are what I loved about the book, and what kept me turning pages.The characters and story, however, I'm not so sure of. Flannery is supremely unlikeable, and most of her friends and love interests are no better. I don't demand that my fictional characters be super nice (I love Arrested Development and plenty of other fiction where there is hardly any clear person to root for) but the Basic Eight (her clique) are not as clever as they think they are, and not as interesting as I'd like them to be. The story amounts to little more than high school drama, with a revolving door of will-they-won't-they couples that I didn't really care about because they were all so selfishly obtuse. The tension climaxes in a long, surreal chapter at a party that is written in such fractured stream-of-consciousness that it made *me* feel drunk reading it. This ending is a testament to Handler's writing skill -- the loopy, distracted narration is perfect for conveying a drunken mental breakdown -- but as it dragged on I lost patience with the suspense, turning page after page after page waiting for the twists to click into place in the satisfying way I was sure he was building up to.***SPOILERS AHEAD***And here is where Fight Club comes in. In the same way that M. Night Shyamalan is the last person who will ever be able to pull off the "he was a ghost" twist, everything I have read or watched since Fight Club has failed at surprising me with an imaginary character twist. It's not the author's fault -- in this case, Basic Eight was written only a year or two after Fight Club and well before Secret Window and many others -- but I puzzled out the answer about halfway through the book, and the remaining half was an irritating wait for the story to catch up. I was very let down to discover in the last few pages that Handler had no more tricks up his sleeve, and the only surprise was the one he had telegraphed pretty early. The thing with an unreliable narrator is that when you figure out their game, the rest of the story should reveal itself in retrospect, and I feel like there are still plenty of mysteries and questions that the ending never explains. You never want to end a book with a feeling of frustration welling up in you, an aggravated "really? that's it?" your only response, and that's where this left me.
7530759	It was a good book, fun read, very Heather-like and a fabulous capstone/bookend (ha ha) for my "can't get enough gory, psychological, pretentious murder manifestos (manifesto, just in case you're taking this literally is far too strong a word for this book).So, Daniel Handler. Yep, he's rad. I like Lemmony Snickets and all that jazz. I think it's great we have have a new Edward Gory in the world to scare/tantalize little children and remind them that bad little boys and girls will be drown, starved, beheaded, etc. You can't really scare children enough, you know. However, this book fell into a weird little age grouping and messed with it a bit. Unlike Special Topics and Secret History (Secret History being by FAR the best in this little trio), this wasn't really a novel about kids written for "adults." Instead I think it almost was "teen" read-ish, which, given Handler's Series of Unfortunate Events isn't a bad idea, BUT, it was just a little...well, not quite cunning enough to be Heathers and not classy enough to to Secret History. I got stuck on the San Francisco part. I know nothing really, about Handler, but I think he's British, which is fabulous, but I was really distracted by the chosen setting of this book. It was SF but the only REAL parts of SF mentioned were the Golden Gate Bridge and I think Taylor or Turk or some street randomly is thrown out, but beyond that all the coffee shops are made up, the school is, I guess where SF state is, in reality...Lake Merced, but hills are referenced and I don't know: I don't know SF that well, but it was distracting to try to piece what I do know of it into this book and if I knew NOTHING about it at all I would have wanted to know more because I just like setting.In terms of character development I am a bit stuck here, too, because, without spoiling anything for you, the ending became sort of "easy" and in going back I'm not sure it's consistent with the rest of the text. It's sort of like he thought of an ending at the middle and doctored up the rest of the book accordingly.Granted, Special Topics employs many of these same tactics and I haven't looked back to see who wrote what when but I think Basic Eight was first. Let's just say Special Topics, while not perfect either, did a better job with this format. But both didn't hold a candle to The Secret History, but I had a great time reading them and, fueled by soy latte and rainy weather here in SF (oh, but am I really even here? Perhaps I could do some non-committal reference to the bus lines and "hills" and SAY I live here...) this book was a real page-turner.However, I am not a fan of the name Flannery. It got on my nerves as did the nick-name "Flan." I found that basically repulsive...and, the whole "unreliable narrator" thing...I'm pretty sure that only works when it's intentional. It seemed like Flannery was "unreliable" because she was inconsistent and probably the brain-child of old high school year book perusal and deep-seeded wish to have fucked shit up when you had the opportunity and complete lack of accountability and high school's really the last time to do this...so...in short, for a truly unreliable narrator I would suggest the good-old classic The Yellow Wall Paper and, if you're over eighteen probably save The Basic Eight for a pool-side read. But, it WAS fun, just what can only be called "the weak-link" to a murder mystery brew-haha.
4808916414	** spoiler alert ** Things I love in books that I will not expand on:-Absinthe plot lines. -Teeth in the grass. -A ruckus party that seems harmless but becomes sinister quickly. -Pretentious children -Pretentious dinner partiesDaniel Handler is a good damn writer. He writes it, I read it. That's the blood deal I made with the demon who opened the gates of hell to let me crawl out.
2022451975	I went in to this with high hopes and they were somehow, I think, raised? At first I thought I wouldn’t like it, as the characters are SO pretentious it’s ridiculous. Like, in the first 50 pages alone they have a dinner party where two characters argue about the preparation of Brie, another toasts “to world peace”, and another discusses whether to serve red or white wine with their meal. I found it hard to believe these kids were 18 in a realistic setting, but then I realised they aren’t meant to be realistic characters. These are supposed to be exaggerations of the kids we wished we were in school. They act more like characters in a Jane Austen novel than kids going through their SAT prep tests. The characters in The Basic Eight are meant to be a parody of what those pretentious kids in high school thought they were, and that’s why they’re unattainably ridiculous. It reminded me a lot of the film Heathers, which has the same sort of satiric message to it. Anyway, once I realised the pretentiousness was intended, this seemed like a near perfect book for me. I loved how unashamedly unreliable the narrator is. Instead of foreshadowing later events in the book, she often outright states exactly what will happen, and it all adds to this sort of non-linear feeling that the book is giving off. Also, it’s really obvious that this book is a sort of launching-off point for Handler to experiment with a lot of the ideas that would go onto become his Lemony Snicket series. With characters forming a semi-secret society that values good food, opera music, and high fashion as some of their core values. Regardless, this book has one of the best twists I’ve read in quite a long time. I don’t want to spoil it, but after I finished this, I flicked through previous passages earlier on in the story and was kicking myself for not seeing it because it’s plastered everywhere. I think it’ll be interesting to see how well it holds up when I reread it in the future, but at face value it’s a brilliant twist that makes an awful lot of sense. I’m still not entirely sure what was real and what wasn’t, and which characters were telling the truth, and which ones have a greater need to lie to get their point across. Anyway, I loved this so much. I think this is definitely the best book I’ve read this year so far. Read it, read it, read it.- Edit -On reading this book again, it’s just confirmed how much I originally liked it. The earlier parts of the book take on a new meaning after knowing the plot twist at the end, and it’s easy to spot the foreshadowing to later events too. This book is brilliant, and somehow even better on a reread. I still think this is the best book I’ve read this year!
680684229	http://littlereadwritinghood.wordpres...(follow the above link to Little Read Writing Hood and like the blog for many more reviews to come!)The Basic Eight is a rare book in that the author makes no attempt to make the main character particularly likeable. The character, Flannery Culp, has her sympathetic moments, but she is a bit of an anomaly in terms of main characters, due to the fact that she is not written to be a likeable character. More to the point, she is not written to be a repugnant character either. She is neither overly off putting or particularly nice; she is very much herself. She could, in fact, be her own adjective: Flannery: (fla-ne-ree) being oneself without trying to impress or pull the wool over another’s eyes.As I was reading the Basic Eight, it occurred to me that if I were to meet Flannery Culp in my school or my town, she would not very likely be someone I enjoyed spending all of my time with. I delighted in this discovery, due to the fact that in most books, primarily those written for teenagers and young adults, the main character, or a character who deeply influences the main character is very likeable: ex. very likeable character: Peeta from The Hunger Games, conversely, a very difficult character could be Sammy from Before I Fall.Flannery Culp, however, is very much her own entity. She is totally herself, all the time, which is part of the reason why the book was so enjoyable. Written in a journal-style prose, Flannery’s story, told as she edits her diary after the Basic Eight have done what they did, Flannery’s story is complicated, jumbled, messy, mixed up, confusing, and delightful all at once.The dark humor of Lemony Snicket (Daniel Handler’s pen name for the Series of Unfortunate Events) ran rampant, and I found myself laughing at things that were most certainly not funny in the literal sense.I recommend this book very highly, but with a few asides: this is somewhat a psychological comedic-drama. Flannery is very irrational, and there is a lot of substance abuse and sexuality in the book. I myself did not find said elements particularly overwhelming, but I will say that there was a lot of it. I read several other reviews, a few of which stated that the book was “disturbing” due to the insight into the irrationality of the minds of my generation; however, I would say that it is not an accurate display of reactions, though Flannery’s feelings are certainly valid.
1217202325	i think to say the story of the basic eight is the bling ring meets the beat generation (more specifically the murder of david kammerer) is as accurate a comparison i can give. i picked this book up solely because it was written by daniel handler, and i had no idea at all what it was about. reading the back of the book, it seemed more like a meg-cabot-teenage-high-school-experience than i would prefer, but i was also consciously aware it was daniel handler so i didn't expect to be disappointed...much.and i wasn't! well, not really. i slugged through the first half of the book painfully, and things only started to get interesting and i could decipher where the direction the story was heading for during the second half of the book. i don't understand, however, flannery's relationships with her friends and especially adam, especially since her narration in her diary is so unreliable (sometimes she's flirty with adam? sometimes adam wants to hit her?) but what do i know about american high school teenage relationships. the foreshadowing, though. oh my god. it kept me going on and on for more despite the morbidity - and in the form of tv liveshow psychoanalyses at that. i have to admit, though, that the ending was a bit disappointing. the [spoiler] part about natasha [/spoiler] caught me COMPLETELY BUT SURPRISE I DIDNT SEE IT COMING AT ALL BUT IT ALL MAKES SENSE (however there were some parts when i read back where natasha conversed with other members of the basic eight but then again flannery's narration is known to be super unreliable) BUT the entire ordeal about [spoiler] (is it really a spoiler though? ok kinda is) flannery killing adam [/spoiler] was not addressed enough (if at all) like what actually happened? was the night at the party when flannery's narration was completely turned upside down by absinthe to be taken seriously at all? in that case, did adam really do what he did? did he really say what he said? was he even there????? like i feel the entire party night was just flannery tripping around by herself and no one actually did or said the things she wrote in her diary. so then why did she kill adam? why is it one moment adam is fingering flannery and then the next he wants to hit her (again god the men in this book are pathetic)? what??? is going on???now i'm going to scout backwards for mentions of natasha.
734720646	Reviewing books--or anything, really--has lately struck me as an odd thing to do. Certainly, I understand why we do it: for one, nobody has enough time to go out and risk wasting their time reading/seeing/listening to something terrible or--what is worse--uninteresting. The clock insists (world without end, as Flannery would put it), and does so, well, insistently. So, that's the first reason. The second is--and this gets to the bedrock of things, I think, the sine qua non of the first reason itself--that none but the bravest and most sociopathic of weirdos likes stuff simply because he likes it. Instead, most of us like something because others like it. Most of high school--and, thus, most of LIFE--is shaped by the struggle to fit this jagged truth into our softest and most essential parts. We want to belong. We want to be free. We want to be loved. We want to control and shape the hearts around us. We want to be ourselves. We want to be someone else. We want to be a star, but there's no way we want to shine that far up, up there in our own orbit, our own lonely orbit. Touch us, never stop, but for goodness sake, keep your hands to yourself.So. We write reviews. We read them. World without end.I'm not going to spoil any of this book because just as with Catcher in the Rye--and yes, I'm making the comparison, and yes, it's an accurate one, both in terms of scope/theme/impact and also--yes, yes, I'm saying it because it's TRUE--in quality--the best part of never having read this book is that you have the rare opportunity not to have YET READ IT. You are as blessed as the angels, in that respect.I don't give fives very often, but I mean it here. This isn't a 4.2 or even a 4.8. No. This is a five. Is it The Brothers Karamozov? Of course not, but Handler isn't Dostoyevsky isn't Donne isn't Melville isn't Marquez isn't Keats isn't, well--world without end--Salinger. It's context. It is what it is. And it is to be read and considered as such. Thom Yorke isn't Mozart isn't The Psalmist--and that's a good thing. I want to be all of them, I want to be none of them. I want to approach them all as they are and be destroyed, be created anew, light, dark, light, dark,world without end.Just read it. That's the best review anyone could ever hope for.
713849971	Daniel Handler, Lemony Snicket, whoever you are: I'm warning you; I'll probably beat you to death someday. Or strangle you. Or something. I might be kidding, I might be not. So right now, I'm a bit nauseated and by a bit I mean a lot. I'm also a bit confused and again, a bit equals a lot. What was that all about?It was fun, at first. No, not fun, it was hilarious. It was my favorite piece of writing, ever. I had to memorize a myriad of sentences (Ha.)for further usage. But at a certain point, it got a bit gloomy (Remember the equation of a bit and a lot? Yeah, that.)and it was a gloomy kind of funny. And it was OK. But it didn't stop there. It went on, an on, and on. It reached the point when it wasn't just gloomy; it was a scary-gloomy kind of funny. Do you think that was the end? If yes, then you're wrong. Because it wan't. It was only the beginning - the last pages were mind/stomach-blowing, real life scary, you had to keep vomiting (mentally, of course. And in my case, really, as well. I was sick. Not from reading the book, although it probably had its fair share of contribution to my sickening/stomach turning/ rotten food projecting out of my mouth process.) Anyway, I'm totally nauseated and I'm not sure if it's the book, or the life. Funnily enough, and surprisingly (not) enough, this book doesn't pass the Bechdel Test. Which I'm not sure applies to the books as well as the movies but what the hell. In case you don't know, it's basically a test examining whether a work of fiction features at least two women who talk to each other about something other than a man. Yeah, a Man. The female characters outnumber the male ones in this book, but still, it doesn't pass the test. Which is a little (a lot) annoying. It reminded me of Robert Cormier's books: People are savages, and savages are people. I'm going to throw up. The book was fine, though. (I know it was more of a rambling than a cohesive review, But I'm Sick! Life is Messed Up! People Are Savages!)
