6973036178	King Street Run is like the offspring of Dr Who and Tom Sharpe. Thomas Wharton, a polite man from a working-class background, finds himself as a postgraduate at King’s College, Cambridge. He stumbles through a portal and meets two men and a woman, who turn out to be the personification of three of the Cambridge colleges. Then begins an adventure in which Thomas assists the three to protect their world from an unknown foe. This includes fighting giant angry gargoyles, borrowing ancient archaeological treasure, and drinking copious cups of tea. The setting of Cambridge, with its passage ways, churches and colleges, is nicely evoked, and the story is told in a playful voice, with wit and light political commentary at moments.
6761540633	This book demonstrates why I like taking a chance on a little known author. I confess, I didn’t want to read it on first look. I don’t like fantasy and I’ve never been to university but I liked the blurb about archaeology and so I thought why not? Well, I loved it. The fantasy element isn’t dungeons and dragons type stuff, it's sort of thriller fantasy if that's a thing. What I mean is that it has fantasy in it but it's well grounded and the story is mystery/thriller. The whole concept is very clever. King street run reminds me of the first time I had a tequila. The full effect didn't hit me until I'd finished the whole thing. There are so few books these days that treat the reader with intelligence. I don't mean that in a snobby way but I mean there aren't many books with hidden depths, hidden meanings, and things you have to either look up or go back to at a later point because suddenly you get the meaning but ksr is full of those moments. The author’s style reminded me a bit of Tom Sharpe and a bit Douglas Adams. That sort of witty, fast pace language. I’m now reading it again as I’m determined to find more of the easter eggs and another review says theres the titles of eight m r James stories in the text. LOL I don't know any m.r James stories but I'm gonna look them up and have a list while I re-read. One thing I'm definitely doing after reading king street run is going to Cambridge to see kings college and all the other places where the portals are :-D
6548460399	This is a great read. It starts at a sedate pace and pokes fun at the farcical aspects of academic bureaucracy. The story builds nicely and I really warmed to the characters. I am not sure if a knowledge of Cambridge or university life would make this more enjoyable. It certainly didn't detract from my enjoyment, though I do want to visit Cambridge now. A really good story with great imagination.
6572188013	A fanastical love letter to Cambridge with a wealth of satire and a hint of steam punk, all wrapped up in a Doctor Who-style romp.
6529993428	Impressed! King Street Run was recommended to me by a friend who knows I love dark academia (basically if it's gothic, mysterious and set in some sort of organisational setting then I'm in). I'm actually now on my second read because I enjoyed it that much. I really like the characters and when I finished I wanted to be around them again. That doesn't often happen to me but I actually wanted to be in their company again. They're well rounded and so real at times that I can almost hear them. King Street Run has a good style to it. It's easy to read but is full and I mean full of double meanings. I love that sort of thing. I don't want to give anything away, but pay attention to names. It's not laugh out loud funny but then it's not meant to be. The humour is very dry and often takes you by surprise. It's one of the most original novels I've read in a long time, both in terms of story and writing style.
