4711690062	I savored this book like a square of fine dark chocolate or a really excellent coffee -- enjoying it a nibble or a sip at a time, with plenty of opportunity to enjoy the rich flavor and nuances.One of the things I liked best about this retelling is that it gave Laertes friends, Henri and Julien, to support and comfort him. As always, it's the characters that make me love a story, and Laertes himself is such a real-feeling bundle of contradictions, worries, fears, and desires that I can't help wanting to hug him and make everything okay. And Hamlet here is a complicated, aloof, needy, bold, self-assured, uncertain chap, not quite as likable as I would have written him, but certainly a valid representation of Shakespeare's character. Ophelia is a wonderful mix of intelligence, fragility, and hope, and I might have loved her more here than I generally do in the play, to be honest. The original characters of Henri, Julien, and Josephine were all nicely fleshed out, though Josephine less so than the boys. I might feel that way because I don't like Josephine very well, though, mostly because she makes some very destructive decisions.I have long felt that Laertes is a key character in the original play, especially the way he serves as a foil for Hamlet. They're like a photo and its negative, one cerebral and fond of reasoning and thinking, and the other a hot-blooded man of action. And yet, most productions of Hamlet that I've seen have treated Laertes as almost an afterthought, seeming to handing the role to some random dude who looks okay with a sword and can remember his lines. All of which means that I got really, really excited when I learned that someone was writing a Hamlet retelling that focused on Laertes. And this book did not disappoint me!
4899635020	When was the last time I read a retelling this beautiful
5017212337	4.5 starsrtc!
5571811340	Choosing to tell what is a well-known story through the eyes of someone like Laertes was a brilliant idea. The fresh perspective lets you view certain characters in a different light. I also love it for the angst it creates. You get to see how torn Laertes is by what he sees as a harsh betrayal by someone who was once close to him. The dynamic between Hamlet and Laertes was my favorite. The tension between them, and their shared history makes their unavoidable fates harder to swallow. The 1920s setting was an apt choice too, and the bits in Paris were especially lush. Full of poetry, literature, and strong bonds. The overall academic aesthetic is fun to get lost in. I also love the sentiments the author expresses through the character, giving what is essentially a tragedy a hopeful ending note. It's a story that will stick with you.
6770656740	it wasn’t bad, and I liked some moments a lot, but I feel like the point of this was lost somewhere in the story - because, having finished the book, I don’t see the point in much of what happened. the ending inevitably leads to Laertes’ death, but because the focus of the first part of the book is on his life in France, it all feels quite random, and, at the same time, everything that goes down in France feels inconsequential. I also really wished his relationship with Hamlet would be interesting and it had the potential, but instead of actually inventing something, the author borrowed some of Hamlet’s relationship with Horatio. I expected to see Laertes as his own character, to see his part in the story, not to have Hamlet speak to him the words he says to Horatio in the play.it was an interesting endeavor to give Laertes his own voice, but it just didn’t quite work for me.
4723305394	Wow. This book was good. Even though I remember how the events of Shakespeare’s Hamlet unfolded, I still found myself awaiting how Carly Stevens' Laertes would end. Her writing really pulls you in and you feel like you are a part of the world if only for a little bit. While my personal favorite is Hamlet(the character), it was really interesting to get Laertes point of view for the story. Having the story take place in more modern times(the 1920's), instead of the 1600's was really fun to read. I find myself not only wanting to reread Shakespeare’s Hamlet, but also other Hamlet retellings or other perspectives of the story. Do those exist? If so, I feel like I'll have high expectations now thanks to Carly Stevens.The book had snippets from Hamlet and Laertes childhood friendship. I loved reading about it and it was really cool to see the differences between their past and present selves. I would love a book about Hamlet(the character) with Carly Stevens writing. I am curious as to how she would have the story unfold. Hamlet prequel anyone?Carly Stevens' Laertes is definitely a book to read and reread. Now I will go find all her other books and read them.
4766269157	A gripping story. I haven't been invested in a story the way I was with Laertes in a long time. I couldn't put the book down! I am still talking about it to anyone and everyone that will listen. Laertes has rekindled my love for both Shakespeare and the dark academia genre. One of my new favorites!
5288450904	Full review coming, but OMG.
5526110934	Perhaps I was the hero. I hoped I was the hero.I really wanted to give this book at least 4 stars, but after reading it, 3 stars will have to suffice. I adore Hamlet, I've been fanatically obsessed with both the story and the character, and it's how I fell in love with Shakespeare. I was really excited about this book; when I saw this book on BookDepository (RIP), I slammed the BUY button so fast, and I dived into the book with starry eyes and a happy disposition. I'm not saying the book was a letdown, I simply expected things to be written and done a bit differently. Unfortunately for Laertes, even when it's his perspective and he appears in a retelling of Hamlet, Hamlet is pretty much in the centre of it all, which is what I kind of missed in this retelling. I expected more Denmark court-related things, more letters between Laertes and Hamlet, Laertes and Ophelia and Laertes and his father. Everyone was more or less pushed to the side, and Hamlet's story became the second fiddle to Laertes' sexcapade plot. While I understand why it was put there, just generally made no sense and it kind of felt more like a page filler. Retrospectively, that was such a shame because the ending felt very rushed. I also missed a lot of other characters - Horatio barely made an appearance and was pretty much tossed aside, and Guildenstern and Rosencrantz were completely forgotten.So far it seems as if I think the book is all bad, but that's not even remotely the case here. The book had very poetic moments, from Latin to subverted Shakespeare's quotes and sayings; it really captured the Shakespearean feel of it. Polonius was masterfully portrayed - eloquent and slimy, all I could see was a nasty weasel. He was somehow even more annoyingly corrupt than in the original. I by no means regret buying and reading the book; it was still a pleasant experience. I think that my fault was in my expectations. The book is written well, some parts are better than others, but it's eloquent, readable, and all the immersed parts of Hamlet's story make sense. Reimagined bratty and stunningly terrifying and charming Hamlet is not the Hamlet seen in Shakespeare's tragedy, but I can definitely that that'd be Hamlet from Laertes' POV.
4987269058	⭐️⭐️.5The premise of this book really whet my appetite and I was ravines for a story I’d been craving. Unfortunately upon completing this book my hunger was unsatisfied; leaving an unpleasant taste in my mouth.
5073685179	je viens à peine de le terminer et j'ai déjà envie de le relire!!!! ce livre est une réelle pépite🥹 le trio me manque déjà....
6985884933	Beautiful. Absolutely stunning. The author’s melodic, high-literary writing style is absolute perfection. I was transported into a Shakespearean drama. As a fan of Shakespeare, and especially being familiar with Hamlet, I was able to notice how often the author was able to incorporate so many wonderful little Easter eggs and nods to the original play. I listened to the audiobook and the narrator has the most wonderful voice! But oh my goodness it helps when what you’re reading is the most eloquent, lovely prose imaginable! SO beautifully written! This is Indie at its finest! Warnings: one sex scene that’s handled very tamely, suicide, poison, death
5864761835	I loved, loved, loved this book. I was so captivated by it. Living in the world of Laertes was fun, interesting, and heartbreaking. Even though we all know how the story goes, the anxiety and anticipation of "what will happen!?" Is still there, and that can not be an easy task!! I wish there was so much more of Ophelia. I think that was honestly the only letdown. Maybe Carly will write something from her pov, next 👀
5290210284	Maybe more like a generous 2.5 ⭐️ rating
5035979791	this book is criminally underrated. i adore laertes’ perspective and the portrayal of all of the beloved characters from hamlet. and the vibes are immaculate-1920s classics students in paris, drinking absinthe and riding bikes and going to the opera?! you’re joking. this book is everything i love in one place.
5992085297	I'm a fan of every retelling of Hamlet, honestly, so there's a chance I'm just easy to please. But I really did enjoy reading this book. The dark academia vibes were excellent, it was certainly a unique perspective to explore, and I enjoyed the writing style a lot.I really liked getting Laertes' point of view on the happenings of Hamlet. You miss a lot of the key moments from the play, but I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing — Laertes is missing for most of it, after all. And this story was focused on him, not Hamlet (the character); I think it would've been distracting to dedicate more time to Hamlet's story, and it would've defeated the point of shifting the narrative.That being said, this book never felt fully committed to the idea of Laertes, the full character. Instead, we had Laertes the Hamlet Side Character and Laertes the Reimagined 1920s Tortured French Poet. His escapades in France felt entirely unrelated to his role in the play's plot, making it feel like we were just filling time between the Main Scenes. I would've appreciated the author building out Laertes as his own independent person and using the Tortured French Poet aspect to directly impact Laertes' actions within the main retold version of Hamlet. In reality, the whole book just seemed a little disjointed.I also think the book needed more time to breathe. I get that Hamlet is told in a quick five acts, but this book was not tied to the same play structure that Shakespeare was. Putting the story in the 1920s already changed the context, so it wouldn't have been that disorienting to add some more scenes in at the end to really explore Laertes' thoughts and feelings. The only part of the book I genuinely disliked was the awkwardly-written feminism. Laertes had a subplot that was basically realizing women are people, which was odd and unnecessary. And none of the female characters were written that well. There's only so much you can do for Ophelia in this case, but Josephine was an original character, and there's no justification for her. You don't need to know the original play well in order to enjoy this book, but my established knowledge was definitely doing a lot of heavy lifting here; I enjoyed it primarily as a fan of Hamlet. And I think other Hamlet fans would feel the same. But we needed to let Laertes shine more.
6341787579	I chose to read the play Hamlet again very recently as it’s always been a favorite of mine out of most of the Shakespeare plays I’ve come across, and somehow that lead me to finding this book, which I’m very happy that I chose to read it rather than ignore. As for the ratings on here, I’d give it 5 ⭐️s, I absolutely adored seeing the play from a different perspective, especially from the character chosen as the foil to Hamlet originally. What I also loved though was that it wasn’t just a full retelling of the play from a different perspective, there were additional scenes and added plot lines and it really just tied everything together and made it seem like two entire stories coming face to face with each other in the end. I wouldn’t say that you have to read Hamlet in order to understand some of the aspects of this book, but having read it before, this book really follows the original details of the play so nicely with its own spin on things. I loved seeing the addition of friends of Laertes and how they impacted the story, and an added meaning to some of the things that weren’t entirely explained in the play.The only thing I’d have to mention though is that I was slightly confused by the whole scene with Josephine during the opera bit. I could tell there was some meaning behind it, although it felt sudden and rushed. Could the story have been pulled off without it? Possibly, though I can’t say for sure. Other than that, I really enjoyed the book.Additional Note: I loved the fact that Horatio was just called “The Italian” until his name was known.
5945947856	Outstanding revisit to one of the lesser known, but very prudent characters, in Hamlet. Laertes was a young man filled with his own hopes and dreams, warring with the expectations placed upon him by his father. Friends, such as Henri & Julien in France, were his lifeline and provided much needed support. This in depth character study gave a view of both Hamlet and Ophelia that enhanced my understanding of the origional work. Hamlet was egotistical and self-important. He gave little concern for the effects his actions had on others. Conversely, Ophelia was a caring, giving, fragile young lady who would go out of her way to benefit another. It is no wonder the pairing of these two should lead to her downfall (much as Laertes suspected).There was a consistent theme of honor running throughout this work. Laertes felt he failed in that respect with his mother, was trying to live up to his father's (unreasonable) expectations of it, and ultimately he ends up in a death duel defending it. At one point, his failure to uphold honor was pointed out by Hamlet, which caused a breach in their friendship that never truly healed. This was an utterly enjoyable read. Getting to know the characters on a more personal level was really quite unexpected (not sure why, but I was thrilled). The dark academia 1920s setting made it much easier for me to immerse myself in than the Shakespearian prose. I just can not say enough positive things about this novel. Thank you so much Carly for both writing it and providing me an ARC. I would give it 10 🌟 if I could!!
5843155348	I’m still gathering all my thoughts for a complete review, but I have not been this swept away by a story in quite some time. I was first drawn in by the wonderful writing and the voice, but within a few pages, I had tumbled headfirst into this incredible world Steven’s has created. Paris and Denmark come alive in these pages. I felt like I was watching every scene unfold from in the very middle of it. Every sense and emotion was engaged. It felt like I had fallen into one of the films I loved in my youth and watched over and over again because I just wanted to live in it.This book was everything I want but don’t always get from dark academia. The retelling itself was incredibly well done. Shakespeare fans and those who aren’t familiar with Hamlet will both find much to love here. In particular, the characterizations were top notch. I loved the depth Steven’s brought to Laertes, Ophelia and Hamlet, in particular. There were so many moments that shone new light on these characters and their struggles. I also loved the way Steven’s captured the delicate and complicated relationship dynamics. At its heart, this is a story about friendship and forgiveness. To avoid spoilers, I’ll just say that the ending delivered everything I had hoped and more. Highly highly recommended.
7087991081	I have not read Hamlet (though it is on my TBR) but I have finally seen a stage production of the play and have the gist of the story.I honestly did not pay much attention to Laertes outside of the role he played in the production I saw but Stevens did in order to write this book.She had it set in the 1920s so we get a more modern setting for it and really went in depth to think about what Laertes would be up to when he was off page in the story of Hamlet. I liked how the sibling relationship was portrayed and it made me wish the ending would be different for Ophelia though I am glad I knew the story because if I didn't and I read this, I would have been heart broken at the outcome. I really wanted Ophelia to be able to be a botantist..., well grow into one more.If you are a Shakespeare enthusiast, I would give this a try and see what you think.... unless you are one of the hard core ones that are not open to seeing outside of only what Shakespeare has written, then you might not enojoy it.
4826723454	★★★★★ stars. Need time to compile my thoughts properly but this was one of my most anticipated books of the year and it delivered everything I wanted from it. I think everyone was forced to read Hamlet during their middle, and often times high school as well, careers and, as someone who enjoyed Hamlet (along with Macbeth), this offered a more human element to the play and of course I will forever be a Laertes fangirl after this. I will say that I the few vices the book itself has is that one it's a bit too short. I hesitated finishing the last two chapters because I didn't want it to end and the other is that i wanted some more Ophelia and Hamlet scenes. Great novel.
6461691457	** spoiler alert ** Having never read Shakespeare, this book completely reeled me in. While I knew the premise of the story in its original telling, this retelling is masterful. From the point-of-view of Laertes with modifications to his story, I fell in love with his character and all who surrounded him. An emotional roller coaster ride, I feared that as I neared the end of the book, I was losing a friend. I highly recommend this book for anyone who loves Shakespeare or anyone who has never read Shakespeare. Told in a modern environment, this story is easily digestible with modern language. It is a lovely story, but alas, tragically had to come to an end.
5871306259	When I taught high school British Lit, Hamlet was my favorite Shakespeare play to read with students. Carly Stevens reminded me of all the reasons that was the case in Laertes, a reimagining of the familiar story from a slightly less familiar character. Atmospheric writing is one of the major ways an author can hook me, and Stevens succeeded in the first chapter! I adored the Dark Academia vibes, the thoughtful characterizations, and the beautiful prose. If you've always wanted to read Shakespeare but are intimidated (or didn't have a great experience in high school), look no further -- Laertes is the perfect way to dip your toe in. I can't wait to read more stories by this talented author!
5197133488	i have no idea what to rate this. i was gonna say 2.5, but i did enjoy some of the character dynamics and i liked seeing this story play out as a foil even to the original. however bc it was so short, it felt rushed for the first 75% and then the last 40 pages or so just dragged. i also usually don’t read author’s notes, but i read this once since i did have such mixed thoughts and that did help, i think, make my review less harsh. i think i just hoped for more? overall, as someone who likes Hamlet, this was decent enough, i guess. this of this review as like,, a 2.75 rounded up go 3 i think
6861306864	I love Hamlet, it's my favorite Shakespeare play. I've read my fair share of Hamlet retellings, but I have never read one from Lartes's perspective. This was so well done, and I finished it in one day. It was the perfect length, engaging, and I really felt connected to Laertes. With his struggle and deep connection, he felt to those around him. I also really loved the sibling relationship between Laertes and Ophilia. It was so cute and clear how much they both cared for each other. Overall, I really liked this book and do recommend.
7086719228	A beautiful retelling of a Shakespearean classic. I ate this up. I especially loved the creative choices of setting it in the 1920s, and giving the story a dark academia feel. It added an extra layer to the story that felt simply decadent (I truly cannot think of another word to describe the feeling the atmosphere of this book gave me. Decadent. Like red wine. Or dark chocolate. It makes sense to me, ok?) 4/5 ✨
7523942353	I don't read a lot of retellings but I absolutely love this author so wanted to try this audiobook. A retelling of Hamlet, Laertes doesn't get enough attention yet he was a main character in Shakespeare's original. This is eloquently crafted, taking a few liberties, but all added to the story and just entranced me. Definitely a tragedy but at the heart of all, friendship and love. Highly recommend, especially the audiobook which is excellent.
5756893408	First I would like to thank the author for allowing me to be an arc reader for this lovely book! I have loved Hamlet since I read it, and this adaptation did it justice. I really enjoyed Laertes pov of the story, it added a lot to the tragedy. I also enjoyed that it took place in the 1920s. Laertes was a fascinating character and I found I related to him at times. I also really loved Henri and Julien. This book was written and I think the author did a brilliant job!
7043580636	I had the pleasure of meeting Carly at her book signing at a Barnes and Noble in Co Springs, where I purchased this book. I’m not super familiar with Hamlet, but I enjoyed this story! Some parts felt a little fast/rushed but I was here for the vibes and this book provided 😊
7769467527	I really enjoyed this book, so many books I’ve read are forgettable, but this one is not. So well written and easy to follow all the intertwined relationships making this one of my favorites this year. The ending just brought out all the feelings!
5024273116	As I loved the book the finale was both boring and heartbreaking at the same time! I think only this book could mix such a feelings together. I loved how Henri and Julien interacted with Laertes. I think it was my favorite part in the book!
6013725281	Honestly I really enjoyed this. It reads like a very, very good fanfiction, and it caters to the dark academia visual without being too overbearing or eyeroll-worthy.
6060805704	Let me say this: I fucking love a historical retelling. Give me those minor perspectives!!!
8137499971	never thought about how absolutely insane hamlet would be from laertes’ perspective but bro got fucked in every way possible
7212226413	Set in Europe in the 1920's this is a compelling and beautiful retelling of Shakespeare Hamlet from Laertes point of view.
5368796504	As far as Shakespeare retellings go, this was a very good one! Set in a dark academia 1920’s, I got an excellent glimpse at the life of a character that is only seen for a short time.
5249456234	3.5/5 stars
8081884827	This was an interesting take of Hamlet from the perspective of Laertes. Moody and dark. True to Hamlet. If you like dark academia this is a great read!
5848017553	As a child, I imagined hell. It was part piety and part self-indulgence.
5330578585	The only thing that could have made this book better is if Laertes and Hamlet kissed at the end while they lay dying
6779401807	I have great admiration for all my local indie authors, and Carly Steven is certainly among my favorites. "Laertes" is a beautifully crafted retelling of Hamlet, offering a fresh perspective. This engaging read will pull at your heartstrings and evoke a range of emotions.
5731701729	Laertes by Carly StevensEvery now and then you read a book that just hits you in the feels. You come away with this wonderful heart wrenching feeling like you don’t want it to end. This book was dark and sad and tragic and beautiful and so so good! I came away longing to reread Shakespeare’s Hamlet. It’s been 2 weeks since I finished this and I’m still in the Shakespearean mood. I loved the sad and yet hopeful ending. Set in the 1920s, Laertes is a retelling of Hamlet from the perspective of, you guessed it, Laertes. For much of Shakespeare’s play Laertes is offstage and only appears a handful of times. This book imagines what he was going through as his sister begins a relationship with Hamlet, who is a friend and yet not, to Laertes. The story gives Laertes a close knit group of friends at school who stick with him through thick and thin. Laertes is a very flawed character, yet he loves his family and friends deeply. The book tackles difficult topics such as depression, suicide, and infidelity. It’s a very moody story but I kinda loved it all the same. This story also has themes of forgiveness woven throughout. This is a book that I would highly recommend to the right audience, but not to everyone.Content warning: occasional strong, harsh language and one sexual scene which is easy to skip.
