1124766929	The Glass Bead Game is a profound and complex contemplation on the relation between reality and art. The game of the title is a symbol and quintessence of pure art – art for art’s sake.“As you well know, there are some who do not think well of the Glass Bead Game. They say it is a substitute for the arts, and that the players are mere popularizers; that they can no longer be regarded as truly devoted to the things of the mind, but are merely artistic dilettantes given to improvisation and feckless fancy.”Young Joseph Knecht is taken to the boarding school in Castalia – a kind of intellectual utopia inhabited only by highly creative minds. On attaining the great skill in music, spirituality and meditation, Joseph decides to devote himself to the art of the Glass Bead Game. When he achieves perfection he becomes the master of the game – Magister Ludi. His highest goal seems to have been reached but he feels that he is surrounded with futility, his existence is full of vacuum, he wants to share his tremendous knowledge with others and to be useful.Game and discipline of the mind through meditation had become the truly characteristic values of Castalia…To Knecht, therefore, this meant one more tie, one more counterpoise to his growing urge to renounce everything and achieve a breakthrough into a new and different sphere of life. Nevertheless, this urge developed inexorably. Ever since he himself had become fully aware of it – that may have been in the sixth or seventh year of his magistracy – it had grown steadily stronger.He finds an apt pupil in the outside world and becomes his tutor…If a denizen of the ivory tower forsakes his intellectual resort, he is doomed.
177418535	There’s a scene in Antonio Tabucchi’s Indian Nocturne in which the narrator meets an Indian intellectual who asks him, among other things, what he thinks of Hermann Hesse. The narrator, resenting the interruption and perhaps with a sense he is being mocked, heaps scorn on the German “spiritualist”, calling him sentimental and likening him to a sweet liqueur, and only later realises he hasn’t said what he thought of Hesse at all. In some way, these days, I suspect there’s a little of this narrator in many of us. Hesse – unlike Kafka or Beckett or Mann – is not an intellectual’s badge of honour. Frequently, I’ve approached one or another of his books again after a hiatus half-expecting that this time I will have grown out of him, but I never do. The Journey to the East has enthralled me since I first read it in my teens – and probably I understand only marginally more of it now than I did then. The “Treatise on the Steppenwolf” (unlike much of the rest of that most famous of his novels) I likewise revere. The early novella Knulp is a small masterpiece, touching and true. Demian has its moments, Siddhartha too (though again its fame is out of proportion to its content), and Klingsor’s Last Summer and many of the short stories and even Narziss and Goldmund if you’re on a roll and don’t want to stop. But looming over all of them, dwarfing them and pulling together most of what’s best in each of them is The Glass Bead Game, a book which, despite myself, and though I doubt I’ll be able to convey why without reading it again (a fourth time), I count among the five or so most transformative reading experiences in my lifetime. Like The Journey... or “The Treatise...”, the “General Introduction [to the Glass Bead Game] for the Layman” is Hesse at his finest – not so dissimilar to Borges in his essayistic tone and otherworldly humour, and throwing out mindbending concepts with casual aplomb. The Glass Bead Game is thus a mode of playing with the total contents and values of our culture; it plays with them as, say, in the great age of the arts a painter might have played with the colours on his palette. All the insights, noble thoughts, and works of art that the human race has produced in its creative eras, all that subsequent periods of scholarly study have reduced to concepts and converted into intellectual property – on all this immense body of intellectual values the Glass Bead Game player plays like the organist on an organ. In other words, an early glimpse of post-modernity, but telescoped into an imaginary future (after what Hesse dryly characterises as “The Age of the Feuilleton”) in which – for the purposes of players of the Glass Bead Game – artistic production has stopped or gone underground, and the highest cultural calling is to manipulate what has been left behind by former ages, to create – in a hyper-ritualised setting and for the benefit of worldwide audiences – these “games” that are part music, part mathematics, and use a futuristic brand of calligraphic characters to sample and integrate their component parts into a quasi-equation that can later be studied and reproduced. At the centre of this enterprise, the Magister Ludi – or master of the Glass Bead Game – is treated like a priest or deity by devotees of the game. But there is none of the rock- or movie-star “cult of personality” about these figures; not only are their identities kept secret except from a few close initiates, but their study in biographies or histories is discouraged. Certainly, what nowadays we understand by personality is something quite different from what the biographers and historians of earlier times meant by it. For them, [...] the essence of a personality seems to have been deviance, abnormality, uniqueness, in fact all too often the pathological. We moderns, on the other hand, do not even speak of major personalities until we encounter men who have gone beyond all original and idiosyncratic qualities to achieve the greatest possible integration into the generality, the greatest possible service to the suprapersonal.Nevertheless, The Glass Bead Game is, for the most part, a biography of one earnest if somewhat rebellious Magister, Joseph Knecht – a man whose early brilliance followed by his ultimate resignation is a touchstone for all who question the value of life behind the cloistered walls of Castalia, the “pedagogical province” in which his story takes place. What do we have here then, if not the old, “pathology”-based form of a biography? A kind of everyman story, the story of a type. But Hesse’s type – and I think this is beautiful in light of the leader of his former homeland when he wrote this – is a leader, the ideal leader, and the culmination of a search which runs throughout Hesse’s work. Joseph Knecht is a kind of holy man, but with none of the pomp or self-importance which, maybe, these days, that implies. “Knecht” in German means “servant”, and throughout his short life Knecht impresses us as just that, a servant both to those he governs and to some other voice – or “calling” – which comes to him from beyond. Like all of Hesse’s characters, Knecht exists to “find himself”, but unlike Harry Haller or Knulp or Emil Sinclair or even Siddhartha, he does not despair (at least not in these pages); like Leo, the leader-in-disguise of the Journeyers to the East, he remains tranquil and alert to his duties. Throughout the book Knecht’s own writings are quoted, and at the end of the “Introduction...”, in speaking of classical music, he writes the following:[...] always there may be heard in these works a defiance, a death-defying intrepidity, a gallantry, and a note of superhuman laughter, of immortal gay serenity. Let that same note also sound in our Glass Bead Games, and in our whole lives, acts, and sufferings.Earlier Knecht’s biographer had warned us:The poets told horrific fables about the forbidden, diabolic, heaven-offending keys, [...] the “music of decline”; no sooner were these wicked notes struck in the palace than the sky darkened, the walls trembled and collapsed, and kingdom and sovereign went to their doom.People fault Hesse for what they see as his sentimentality. Sometimes, I can see their point (as in the relationship of Harry Haller to his young prostitute friend in Steppenwolf, for example). But when he manages to rise above all the doubts and complaints of that lonely wolf of the steppes, there is actually something quietly heroic in Hesse’s stance. In Switzerland, in 1943, along with his friends Paul Klee and Hugo Ball of the Cabaret Voltaire, this man refuses absolutely to play the “heaven-offending keys”. Whatever he creates will partake only of that “superhuman laughter” and “death-defying intrepidity”, no matter what horrors his homeland can spew forth (and, as his writings on the war show, Hesse was far from ignorant of these). And so, on the surface, his may seem a fantasy for which the modern (or post-modern) world has little use: escapism, idealism, even (amid the destruction of Europe by guns and explosives) lyricism. But read more closely and it’s evident that the despairing, human Hesse is passionately present in almost every word of this. Yes, the characters in The Glass Bead Game – like Beckett’s characters, like Kafka’s – can seem more or less than human. No, there is no sexuality in their world (nor in Waiting For Godot, for that matter), and as if to foreground this lack Hesse writes his “Introduction...” entirely from a genderless “we” standpoint, which while not spelling it out seems to suggest (or has always suggested to me, anyway) that we are to treat these characters as beyond or outside of the ordinary realm of the sexual. (Why? Perhaps because, to a German in Europe in 1943, sexuality did not seem that crucial a topic.) Me, I’ve never demanded “realism” from fiction; in fact, I like writers who alert me to the fact that the beings they create are not human. Likewise, I don’t care in the least that the end section of the book – “Joseph Knecht’s Posthumous Writings” – is probably just a series of sketches done in warm-up for the task of creating Knecht. To me, at least one of these novellas (“The Father Confessor”) is easily among the best of Hesse’s works in its own right and never fails to have me in tears by the end of it. And even the poetry (poorly-suited to translation as it is) is illuminating in showing the genesis of the conception.If I haven’t said much about the substance of Knecht’s story, the truth is I don’t remember much of it, but for snatches of scenery (which Hesse describes so well) and a general feeling of the excitement of a young man following his calling. If you read for plot, this isn’t the book for you. But if you want to hear the wisdom of a wise, possibly heartbroken man determined, despite everything, not to hit the jarring notes of the diabolic keys but to sing with the laughing voice of an angel, this is it. I don’t care if that sounds sentimental. The world needs artists who are willing to speak calmly from the storm, and Hermann Hesse was one of them. I take my hat off to you, Herr Hesse. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart, for your guidance.
50073919	A tremendous disappointment, especially given the shimmering praise the book garners on all sides. I realize I’m at odds with the world in judging this book harshly, and I realize there may yet be some dimension of brilliance here that I’m just not seeing, but grant me this, it’s not for lack of trying. No other novel have I ever laid down without a backward glance within a few dozen pages of the end, certain at last that the great payoff for my eight hundred pages of patience was never going to come. Here’s the big plot spoiler: nothing at all happens in this book. Not “nothing” in a loaded, John Cage way, just nothing, as when the author cannot deliver on his heady promises but publishes a book anyhow. I actually think it’s kind of important to call bullshit on all the approbation the book receives.The two fundamental failures in the book are its main character and its central device, the Game itself. Both failures are drearily total, and each is all the more of a letdown for the breathless, never-ending clamor of hype both within and without the book’s pages.The book starts right out with the declaration of Joseph Knecht’s pivotal importance, as the greatest player the Game has ever had, after whose career the history of the Game could never be the same. This is repeated ceaselessly throughout, in narrative asides. Meanwhile, we watch a pleasant, unassuming, talented young boy as he is handpicked by a professor, becomes a promising student whose great potential is remarked on by everyone he meets, and moves on to become a professor at a young age. He is indeed the youngest ever to become Magister Ludi, so at least that should earn him a mention in the history books. We are told, I think precisely once, that when he runs a game, it’s a good one. And then he gets old; along the way he meets some people and has some conversations. And then he dies in a swimming accident, and then we riffle through some of his personal papers until the book is over. Even his youthful writings, a strange little coda to his own life story, echo the pattern of fervent affirmation of the importance of a character—plainly himself in thin disguise, but now being described, just as fawningly, in his own voice—who goes on to do nothing much.If in fact Knecht ever does anything of greater historical importance than being generally agreeable and good at what he does, it is not told to us. His life is a dull blank, undeserving of a biography at all, especially when at least three other characters go by who might actually have made good reading. Consider the strangely beatified Music Master, whose unexpectedly mystical transcendence of humanity Knecht merely witnesses when it comes along late in the book; that might be worthy of history. Or Knecht’s boyhood rival, a fiery young student who leaves the academic world and is reunited with Knecht later on one of the protagonist’s vanishingly rare ventures outside his ivory tower; his relationship to the Game is complex and troubled, but this barely ruffles the surface of Knecht’s complacency. Or there is the Sinophile who draws Knecht into a dialogue with Chinese history and literature, who gets to deliver the book’s most interesting challenge: when Knecht seeks his assistance in bringing the symbology of the I Ching into the vocabulary of the Game (much easier, you’d think, than it would have been to encapsulate French poetry or organic chemistry, since the I Ching is already encoded in a set of symbols easily printed on beads), his new mentor smiles and says you can build a garden in the world, but good luck fitting the entire world inside your garden. What’s this? A character within the Glass Bead Game dismissing the Game itself as far lesser than some other symbol system? Here, now, we have the potential for a meaty examination of this Game thing, which we deserve after putting up with so much talk about it. But Knecht just shrugs and goes about his business, and there will be no exposition upon either system. Because the Game is the other aching nullity at the heart of the book; there’s nothing there.Hesse was inspired to write, beyond doubt, by the legitimately awesome notion of the Game. He imagines a symbol system within which all academic disciplines can be encoded, and can interact with each other, like a conversion chart for all fields of knowledge. Within this system, all concepts are encoded on beads, and it seems any of them can meaningfully combine with any other, such that wild new ideas emerge in the interplay. Here is the complex discourse wherein some kind of game, some competition or contest, can flourish, a game of all human learning, ranging like lightning from one discipline to another, referencing everything. Only a rarefied kind of academic could hope to understand such a game, let alone play it competitively. And the book is set within the cloistered academy where these super-scholars are trained.It’s a sweeping, fascinating idea. It’s enough, without adding much of anything else, to drive a really memorable short story. But Hesse wanted it to crown a towering edifice, worthy of the sense of weight and magnitude that was, in fact, only the subject of the idea rather than its dimensions. By which I mean: it was a vague little slip of an idea about something vast and weighty, rather than actually being a vast and weighty idea. But Hesse fooled himself, and in his excitement he determined to write a very long novel, and that was a mistake from which there could be no recovery. The fatal problem is that Hesse wilts instantly before the task of filling in any kind of detail about what the game was and how it worked. He hasn’t a clue. Inspired by his book, several people have gone on to design more or less playable games to match their impressions of the game he only alludes to—you can find them on the internet if you look around—but he never does. And the more ambient suspense the author generates by promising a brilliant reality, without ever showing even a flickering corner of it, the worse the bland filler starts to smell when it all gets stale. Mind you, I know it’s too much to ask for him to generate a practical game that lives up to his vision. But we don’t need him to do that. He need only sketch some part of it, fill in a detail here and a detail there that his characters can make part of their workaday conversations. He does need to do something, though, and it needs to pass muster as at least a tantalizing beginning of the thing itself. One example, perhaps, of a specific bead that represents something from the science of biology; what is written or drawn on the bead? What might be one instance of that bead’s being played in answer to a bead representing some architectural concept? That would be enough. He makes frequent mention of music—indeed the deification of music, common among writers, is so relentless here as to become a minor problem in its own right—but no sign of how it relates to any other field. Of course, a writer needs to be able to let the reader fill in empty spaces that the story only sketches with spare gestures. But the gestures need to be the beginning of something worthy.In the event, that one game—”composed” by Knecht during his tenure as Top Official in Gameland—gives us just enough detail to make clear, after most of the book has gone by, that what’s actually happening here is a solo show. Knecht has composed a complex exercise in advance, and now the other players are just acting it out, perhaps filling in some details at their own discretion but abiding by a predetermined structure. Our one glimpse of the practical nature of the game has all the fanfare of a whoopee cushion. The Game isn’t actually a game. Nobody's playing. There are no objectives. It’s some sort of abstruse, very quiet performance art.A long book full of portentious self-promotion but with nothing to say. An elaborately wrapped present with no gift inside. A big fat nothing. Not the nothing of the Buddhist, who longs for nothing and seeks it, but that of the Wizard of Oz—a nothing that noisily proclaims itself to be everything.
3877946350	„Ca orice idee mare, jocul acesta nu are propriu-zis un început, ci, ca idee, a existat întotdeauna... Ideea jocului este veșnică; prin aceasta a existat și s-a manifestat cu mult înainte de realizarea ei în practică”.Maaaaamăăă, da ce rezistență la frustrare aveam pe vremuri :) Mi-am găsit notele de odinioară. Priveam romanul ca pe o carte de eterată înțelepciune și copiam răbdător fraze complicate, cu mulți termeni abstracți, care acum nu-mi mai spun absolut nimic. Sugerau ceva cu privire la muzică: „Muzica ia ființă din măsură și-și trage sevele din Marele Unic. Marele Unic este genitorul celor doi poli; cei doi poli dau mișcare puterii întunericului și luminii etc.”. Nu prea mă interesa pe atunci ce povestește la propriu cartea lui Hesse, o priveam ca pe o biografie a unui ales angelic (asemănătoare cu Doctor Faustus a lui Thomas Mann, care prezintă, în schimb, un ales diabolic) și căutam îndeosebi „metafizica”. Fără spor...Acțiunea se petrece pe la anul 2400 și ceva, undeva într-o provincie a fericiților, Castalia. Romanul ar fi, așadar, o utopie, descrierea unei lumi a seninătății calme și a jocurilor ingenioase. În Castalia, elita tinerimii luminate studiază cu magiștri eminenți (există și un Magistru al muzicii) în condiții ascetice. Unii elevi nu rezistă privațiunilor și se întorc în lumea oamenilor obișnuiți. Alții fac față cu brio. Dintre învățăcei se remarcă, firește, prin însușiri ieșite din comun, Joseph Knecht (Knecht = slugă). Mai tîrziu, Knecht este ales în fruntea ordinului castalian și primește titlul ambiguu de Magister Ludi (în latină, „ludus, ludi” înseamnă școală, joc, spectacol etc.). Magistru al Școlii și al Jocului: dar în ce constă jocul? Criticii și-au bătut capul ani de zile (încă nu s-au oprit) să ghicească la ce anume s-a referit autorul cînd și-a întitulat romanul Das Glasperlenspiel. Încă nu s-a ajuns la o concluzie fermă, nu sînt temeiuri. Vagul în care se păstrează naratorii (romanul are mai mulți) m-a intrigat și la prima lectură. Cum adică? Ce fel de joc e acesta? Nu știu de ce, dar m-am gîndit atunci la un șirag de mătănii, cam așa se traduce termenul german. Inițiații stau, meditează și învîrt cu dexteritate mărgele pe degete, așa cum în altă parte călugării orientali fac să se miște o roată / morișcă a rugăciunilor. Altceva nu mi-a trecut prin minte și nici nu avea cum. Era o conjectură puerilă, recunosc... Acum mă gîndesc că este vorba de o limbă perfectă de formule matematice, o „ars combinatoria”, așa cum a propus cîndva Leibniz. Deci, jocul cu mărgele de sticlă rămîne un mister, o activitate (pur mintală?). Are legătură cu muzica și cu notele muzicale, asta e sigur, dar mai precis nu se știe, nimeni n-a pătruns mai departe. Tinerii sînt educați să se prindă într-un joc extins (și asta m-a frapat prima dată, inițiații sînt răspîndiți pretutindeni). Studierea jocului este anevoioasă:„Regulile acestui joc al jocurilor se învață numai pe calea obișnuită, prescrisă, care cere cîțiva ani, și nimeni dintre inițiați nu ar putea avea vreun interes să facă aceste reguli ale jocului mai ușor de învățat”.Partea cea mai amuzantă a romanului este descrierea epocii actuale, numită „epocă a foiletoanelor” și a răspîndirii cunoașterii prin vulgarizare (prelecțiuni cu public). Eu nu văd nimic rău în asta, dar prozatorul pare a privi foiletonul (și restul) ca un semn definitiv al declinului și dezordinii, o neputință de a reconstitui un întreg spart în fragmente pestrițe. Într-un fel, Hermann Hesse a văzut corect. Astăzi toată lumea compune articole, foiletoane și eseuri (inclusiv susiscălitul), prelegeri nu se mai țin din pricina pandemiei:„Ei, care citeau atîtea articole şi audiau atîtea conferinţe, nu-şi acordau timp şi nu-şi dădeau osteneala să se fortifice împotriva fricii, să combată în sufletul lor teama de moarte, trăiau tresărind şi nu mai credeau în nici o dimineaţă”.Așadar, foiletoanele și interviurile de azi ascund un rău mai adînc... Mă întreb dacă un astfel de roman mai are astăzi cititori și nu știu ce să răspund, mă îndoiesc...P. S. Desigur, romanul cuprinde și o discuție despre relația dintre lumea formelor platoniciene și istorie. Formele se situează în afara timpului, dar cel care le contemplă senin e afectat de vremelnicie. Joseph Knecht moare tînăr...
5071918174	„Ca orice idee mare, jocul acesta nu are propriu-zis un început, ci, ca idee, a existat întotdeauna... Ideea jocului este veșnică; prin aceasta a existat și s-a manifestat cu mult înainte de realizarea ei în practică”.Mi-am găsit notele de la prima lectură. Au trecut vreo 15 ani. Pot face, așadar, o comparație. Priveam romanul ca pe o carte de eterată înțelepciune și copiam răbdător fraze complicate, cu mulți termeni abstracți, care acum nu-mi mai spun absolut nimic. Sugerau ceva cu privire la muzică: „Muzica ia ființă din măsură și-și trage sevele din Marele Unic. Marele Unic este genitorul celor doi poli; cei doi poli dau mișcare puterii întunericului și luminii etc.”. Mai obscur decît atît nu se poate...Nu prea mă interesa pe atunci ce povestește la propriu cartea lui Hesse, o priveam ca pe o biografie a unui ales angelic (asemănătoare cu Doctor Faustus a lui Thomas Mann, care prezintă, în schimb, un ales diabolic) și căutam îndeosebi „metafizica” romanului. Fără spor...Acțiunea se petrece pe la anul 2400 și ceva, undeva într-o provincie a fericiților, Castalia. Romanul ar fi, așadar, o utopie, descrierea unei lumi a seninătății calme și a jocurilor ingenioase. În Castalia, elita tinerimii luminate studiază cu magiștri eminenți (există și un Magistru al muzicii) în condiții ascetice. Unii elevi nu rezistă privațiunilor și se întorc în lumea oamenilor obișnuiți. Alții fac față cu brio. Dintre învățăcei se remarcă, firește, prin însușiri ieșite din comun, Joseph Knecht (Knecht = slugă). Mai tîrziu, Knecht este ales în fruntea ordinului castalian și primește titlul ambiguu de Magister Ludi (în latină, „ludus, ludi” înseamnă școală, joc, spectacol etc.). Magistru al Școlii și al Jocului: dar în ce constă jocul? Criticii și-au bătut capul ani de zile (nu s-au oprit nici astăzi) să ghicească la ce anume s-a referit autorul cînd și-a întitulat romanul Das Glasperlenspiel. Încă nu s-a ajuns la o concluzie fermă, nu sînt temeiuri, găsim doar ipoteze de lectură. Vagul în care se păstrează naratorii (romanul are mai mulți) m-a intrigat și la prima lectură. Cum adică? Ce fel de joc e acesta? Nu știu de ce, dar m-am gîndit atunci la un șirag de mătănii, cam așa se traduce termenul german. Inițiații stau, meditează și rotesc cu dexteritate mărgele pe degete, așa cum în altă parte călugării orientali fac să se miște o roată / morișcă a rugăciunilor. Altceva nu mi-a trecut prin minte și nici nu avea cum. Era o conjectură puerilă, recunosc... Acum, mă gîndesc că este vorba de o limbă perfectă de formule matematice, o „characteristica universalis”, așa cum a propus cîndva Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz. Deci, jocul cu mărgele de sticlă rămîne un mister, o activitate (pur mintală?). Are legătură cu muzica și cu notele muzicale, asta e sigur, dar mai precis nu se știe, nimeni n-a pătruns mai departe. Tinerii sînt educați să se prindă într-un joc extins (și asta m-a frapat prima dată, inițiații sînt răspîndiți pretutindeni). Studierea jocului este anevoioasă:„Regulile acestui joc al jocurilor se învață numai pe calea obișnuită, prescrisă, care cere cîțiva ani, și nimeni dintre inițiați nu ar putea avea vreun interes să facă aceste reguli ale jocului mai ușor de învățat”.Partea cea mai amuzantă a romanului este descrierea epocii actuale, numită „epocă a foiletoanelor” și a răspîndirii cunoașterii prin vulgarizare (prelecțiuni cu public). Eu nu văd nimic rău în asta, dar prozatorul pare a privi foiletonul (și restul) ca un semn definitiv al declinului și dezordinii, o neputință de a reconstitui un întreg spart în fragmente pestrițe. Într-un fel, Hermann Hesse a văzut corect. Astăzi toată lumea compune articole, foiletoane și eseuri (inclusiv susiscălitul), prelegeri nu se mai țin din pricina pandemiei:„Ei, care citeau atîtea articole şi audiau atîtea conferinţe, nu-şi acordau timp şi nu-şi dădeau osteneala să se fortifice împotriva fricii, să combată în sufletul lor teama de moarte, trăiau tresărind şi nu mai credeau în nici o dimineaţă”.Așadar, foiletoanele și interviurile de azi sînt semne de superficialitate și ascund un rău mai adînc... Mă întreb dacă un astfel de roman mai are astăzi cititori și nu știu ce să răspund, mă cam îndoiesc...P. S. Desigur, romanul cuprinde și o discuție despre relația dintre lumea formelor platoniciene și istorie. Formele se situează în afara timpului, dar cel care le contemplă senin e afectat de vremelnicie. Joseph Knecht moare tînăr...
181438769	Allow three stars to stand for my ambivalence. Not for the quality of this book, which is indeed quite excellent.We live in a time of urgent political and environmental catastrophe. Those of us who aren’t evangelical Christians who put anti-abortion judges before other social values; those of us who aren’t racists and don’t fear immigrants; those of us who aren’t multi-millionaires looking for more tax breaks; those of us who have not bought into the Republican party’s propaganda machine recognize the danger inherent in Trump. The Republican party has been working its gradual gerrymandering way toward authoritarian control for a long time. Right wing becomes more right becomes more right, each step leading to the next. Trump dismisses the rule of law as an irritation that interferes with his goals. He is the latest iteration of a journey into fascism, and if he’s not defeated or removed from office then that journey will continue ever rightward. At the same time, his party sees the environment as a resource to plunder. Global warming is an illusion and nothing to worry about, not while there is money to be made. In their shallow, greedy maneuvers they lead us off a precipice that may in fact be the downfall of civilization and much of our species.So why do I bring up these topics in relation to The Glass Bead Game? In some ways as brilliantly written and erudite as this book is, it felt quaint to me. It portrays a fictional country in some vague future where the primary concerns are intellectual matters. The types of subjects that I discussed while getting my Master’s degree in English Literature. In essence, The Glass Bead Game is like being in an ahistorical, intellectual grad school program studying The Glass Bead Game. And despite the fact that (view spoiler)[the main character in the end rejects this world for the world of history and the struggles of humanity, (hide spoiler)] the greatest majority of the book lives in this intellectual realm. And yet here we live right now in the age of the brute. If literature is to matter it must somehow relate to the core struggles of our age and in that this book misses the mark. Those we struggle against right now are the rich barbarians who pursue ever greater wealth and power. We do not struggle with convincing society’s intellectuals to engage more with humanity. These intellectuals are relatively irrelevant right now. We struggle with political movements, the media, and power. Who is Hesse writing to convince? The professor of comparative literature or philosophy? Is that his audience? In a nutshell, reading The Glass Bead Game felt like fiddling while Rome burns. The Glass Bead Game is primarily a fictional biography. The story of the life of a great intellectual scholar, named Joseph Knecht (sounds like “connect” as EM Forrester wrote, “Only connect”), who was a master, teacher and overseer of a game that is called The Glass Bead Game. This game seems to be a bit like…intellectual tennis. A slow, live debate that crosses media from music to linguistics to math and other apolitical studies. The debate is so slow paced that competitors meditate between responses. We never actually see an example game, but it does sounds incredibly tedious and boring. It’s the kind of debate that Monty Python would have mercilessly mocked as they did with skits such as the Philosopher’s World Cup game (Plato is in goal, don’t you know?) and The Philosophers’ Song (I drink therefore I am!). Admittedly, at times, the excessive details of these theoretical intellectuals playing intellectual games became borderline comedic. There were subtle touches of satire in The Glass Bead Game, but the overwhelming story was just so full of these obsessive intellectual thought processes that I found the actual content overwhelmed what may have been a satirical intent. The debates are definitively and intentionally disconnected from history. Notably, Knecht lives for several years in a Catholic monastery, and the abbot of the monastery, who becomes his friend, challenges him on this disconnection from history. Accusing the scholars essentially of living in an abstract inhuman world. Disconnected and unengaged from what really matters.I found it interesting to note that even when Hesse speaks about the abstract intellectual versus the dirty human realm of politics, he generally references the personal characteristics of leaders and needs of communities or countries vying for power. In this realm he has invented, Hesse has completely obliterated political systems. That is to say, ideologies and systems such as Capitalism, Socialism, Communism, Anarchism. Even while acknowledging the ahistorical nature of Knecht’s commonwealth (positioned as being “post war,”), Hesse has presented the story itself in a strange political vacuum. Trump would not be our President without the promotion of Fox News and other right wing online media outfits. These forces are generally ignored in this story of the intellect versus the body, the life of the mind versus the life of politics.The Glass Bead Game in a way seems to be about “connection” (Knecht) as a theme, and how the game connects across categories and media. But further, this game is also related to the fantasy of the Renaissance man…that famed personality from the Renaissance who was able to learn everything that has ever been learned about all of the sciences and literature, was well read in every subject, and could speak on any topic extemporaneously. This fantastical creature is now dismissed today as unimaginable because each of the disciplines is so deep that it would take a lifetime to delve into any single topic and still only scratch the surface. Hence all the graduate level departments across the country. But what I actually want to call attention to in this premise is not the fantasy of this conceit, but rather the use of the word “man” in this phrase. There was never a “Renaissance Woman.” And similarly, in The Glass Bead Game, it really began to bother me at about the halfway point that all of these intellectual scholars were male, and that in Hesse’s fantasy, women were not permitted in this exclusive elite world. Women are repeatedly positioned in the story as temptations. They are objects that pull men from their higher aspirations. In general, I found the overall context to be a disappointingly male-dominant perspective. One might call it anti-feminist or at a minimum, Hesse presents a patriarchal system. Marriage is portrayed as the man marrying the woman. The students are generally desexualized, their situation being not unlike a seminary or a monks’ retreat, and there is no mention of homosexuality or any sexual acts. Despite this criticism there is one very powerful social critique that occurs about three-fourths of the way through the book. When Knecht is considering leaving the scholarly order to pursue engagement with the greater world of humanity, he writes in a letter on the subject of political power (which is rarely referenced in the story because politics is not supposed to intrude into this abstract scholarly world). But here he pointedly and with foresight illuminates our current moment in time. He notes how propaganda is the death of truth and that this results when a political power seeks to assert domination. In just a few short paragraphs, it’s as if he predicates the book 1984 and Donald Trump and the Republican party. Hesse (or Knecht) speaks to the pursuit of truth (which we might think of as meaningful journalism) and how when men fail to pursue truth, they become diabolical (Fox News). Despite my overall distaste for the book, Hesse has his brilliant, insightful and powerful moments.One aspect of this story that links The Glass Bead Game to Siddhartha, Hesse’s great work that occurs during the time of the Buddha’s life, is the presence of meditation. Meditation is something that the masters of this scholarly world are trained to participate in every day. It is intended as a way to both soothe and calm their anxieties and to keep them productive. In relationship to The Glass Bead Game itself, it’s used as a tool to help them develop insight before responding. It reminded me of the tension between Zen Buddhist meditation, which I participated in frequently when I was a member of a Zen temple, and how meditation is encouraged simply as a stress release tool by hipster Silicon Valley startups. There’s nothing wrong with that in my opinion, and in fact it’s encouraged as a method for stress relief even by many respected Buddhist teachers. And regardless of intention, when properly applied, meditation can be an accidental back door to enlightenment. Meditation is worth doing in and of itself without any ideology associated with it yet because it is a practice it can lead to personal intimate experiences. In The Glass Bead Game, we see it primarily as a tool that is almost the opposite of the way Buddha would suggest it. The scholarly masters describe it as a way to submit your individuality to the hierarchy. Whereas Buddha would say there is no hierarchy.I will conclude my review by touching on my own experience with graduate school. I loved English Literature as an undergrad. We read great books and discussed them as if they were meaningful. Weighing what the author was trying to say and what the story was trying to communicate. When I was in graduate school, 99% of my time was spent instead on analyzing critical theory. We were theory analysts rather than literary analysts. It was a snake eating its own tail. An incestuous world of meaningless jargon. Not only was Knecht trapped in this scholarly abstraction, but I felt that too much of The Glass Bead Game kept me, as a reader, trapped in this abstract intellectual realm. My escape couldn’t come too soon.
16849631	I feel that I must open this review by stating that I am an unabashed fanboy of Hermann Hesse. I read everything that he had ever written at a whirlwind pace several years ago and still return to my favorites, Steppenwolf, Siddhartha and Demian, on a rotating yearly basis. That said, I have often heard that The Glass Bead Game is the magnum opus of Hesse's career. The purest expression of the themes that he had highlighted in his other works. If one were to read only one book by Hesse it should be this one, I had been told. No offense to those earnest recommendations, but I could have gone a long time without reading this dull retread of every one of Hesse's other books.So many of the same character types and situations appear in these pages that I can't help but feel I'm reading a Cliff's Notes version of his oeuvre. The strangely passionate yet platonic love affair of minds between an elder scholar and an impetuous youth a la Narcissus & Goldmund? Check. The intense friendship between two geniuses; one sheltered and naive, the other worldly and brash like those in Demian? They're here too. A Westernized attempt to understand the mysticism and philosophical underpinnings of Eastern religions a la Siddhartha and Journey to the East? Oh yes, they too are here.This repetition in itself does not make The Glass Bead Game unappealing. Stretching these themes over some 400+ pages in Hesse's typically dense prose does. This isn't a bad book and might actually be a good one. But coming into it expecting something unique would be a mistake. This has all been written before, and far more engagingly.
369834944	هذا كتاب هيرمان هيسه الأشهر و الأكبر , كُتب على مدار تسع سنين , و يضمّ معظم أفكار هيرمن هيسه التي عُرف بها فيما بعد إنّها النزعة نحو الذات , و التأمّل و اليقين الموجود هناك في داخلك , وحدة الوجود , التي تقاوم ماديّة العالم و سببيّته الصلبة , الطبيعة تتكلّم معك و بك , و الكائنات كلّها كينونة متنافمة ضمن اللحن نفسِه .الموسيقى .. أرقّ ما يروي الإنسان و تنطق به الحقيقة إنّها الحقيقة الواحدة , التي تتراقص ضمنها سيرورة العالم بتبدّياته المختلفة ... و هنا عبقريّة الرواية و فكرتها المذهلة الحقيقة الواحدة لعبة الكريات الزجاجيّة , هي لعبة ابتكرتها الموسيقى , ثمّ عبّر بها الرياضيّون عن أنفسهم ثمّ الفيزيائيّون ثمّ نقّاد الأدب ... ثمّ العلوم كلّها كلّ المجالات و الحقول المختلفة ذات القوانين و البديهيّات و المنطق المختلف , تنسجم و تعبّر عن نفسِها في هذه اللعبة , لأنّ ثمّة قانوناً كليّة وراء الأشياء , يمكن أن يُعبّر به عنها جميعاً , و بالاحتمالات اللامتناهية لكلّ حقلٍ , و بتفاصيله و دقائقه , و لها مختصّون و مدارس و أساتذة و مسابقات , و يفد إليها المريدون من كلّ مكان , و يعتبر أهلُها أنّهم نخبةُ الأرض التي تحمل الحقيقة . و هي لعبةٌ تعتمد على التأمّل ... لتحفيز النفس على اكتشاف الحقيقة و اليقين في القلب .إنّها دين ...و يسبغ هيرمان هيسه على هذه اللعبة و روّادها صبغة واقعيّة مقنعة , فثمّة في المجتمع من يعتبرها مجرّد لهو رخيص , وثمّة من يعتبر المنشغلين بها مجموعة جهلة مخادعين , و ثمّة من يراهم سحرة , و ثمّة من يتعلّم منهم و يرسل أولاده ليصبحوا مميّزين إليهم .و لا يغفل هيرمان هيسه أن يرسل الكثير من الإشارات و النقد للواقع الاجتماعي السياسي في زمانه بلفتات و تلميحات ذكيّة .كما أنّ تحليل للموسيقى الغربيّة و المقارنة بينها ساهمت في رفع قيمة الرواية كثيراً لدى النخبة الأوروبيّة , ما قد لا نعير هاهتماماً كثيراً في الترحمة العربيّة .كما أنّ تحليله للنفس الإنسانيّة و تصويره للحالات الاستثنائيّة منها , و الكثير من الحكم المرتبطة بها و بالعلاقات بين البشر , و بالأخصّ - و هذه مهمّ و رئيسي- سايكولوجيا المنظومات الشموليّة المغلقة , التي تتبدّى معرفيّا هنا في مدرسة الكريات الزجاجيّة , هذا كلّه كان ذكيّاً طبعاً الرواية لا تخلو من أن تكون مملّة في كثير من الأحيان , و من قال إنّ كلّ فكرةٍ ذكيّة يجب أن تكون روايتها ممتعة ؟!
6691993065	Abbruchrezension - bitte die unten angefügten Updates mitlesen für den Gesamtprozess Ich breche das Buch auf Seite 428 ab. Die Bewertung spiegelt daher nur den Stand bis zu diesem Zeitpunkt wieder.Ich denke, ich bin nach wie vor nicht reif genug für dieses Buch. Mir fehlt der nötige stille Rückzug in den Geist und die Gelassenheit. Blockiere gerade nur noch. Dabei breche ich es in dem Kapitel " Die Legende" ab, die am persönlichsten schildert, das Ringen und den Schmerz sichtbar macht und die Bewegung Knechts ausformuliert: Es waren lauter kleine oder große Schritte auf einem scheinbar geradlinigen Wege gewesen - und doch stand er jetzt, am Ende dieses Weges, keineswegs im Herzen der Welt und im Innersten der Wahrheit, sondern auch das jetzige Erwachen war nur ein Augenaufschlagen und ein Sichwieder-finden in neuer Lage, ein Sicheinfügen in neue Konstellationen gewesen. Derselbe strenge, klare, eindeutige, gradlinige Pfad, der ihn nach Waldzell, nach Mariafels, in den Orden, in das Magisteramt geführt hatte, der führte ihn nun wieder hinaus. Was eine Folge von Akten des Erwachens gewesen, war zugleich eine Folge von Abschieden. Kastalien, das Glasperlenspiel, die Meisterwürde waren jedes ein Thema gewesen, welches abzuwandeln und zu erledigen, ein Raum, der zu durchschreiten, zu transzendieren gewesen war. Schon lagen sie hinter ihm.Und offenbar hatte er einstmals, als er das Gegenteil von dem dachte und tat, was er heute dachte und tat, doch schon etwas von dem fragwürdigen Sachverhalt gewußt oder doch geahnt; hatte er nicht über jenes Gedicht, das er als Student geschrieben und das von den Stufen und den Abschieden handelte, den Ausruf «Transzendieren!» gesetzt? Hesse gibt in einem Metakommentar zu verstehen, warum der eigentliche Prozess Knechts nicht erfahrbar gemacht wird, sondern nur das Endergebnis in seiner plötzlichen Erscheinung spürbar wird: Man fand nicht Gesetze dabei, sondern Entschlüsse, man geriet nicht in den Mittelpunkt der Welt, aber in den Mittelpunkt der eigenen Person. Darum war auch das, was man dabei erlebte, so wenig mitteilbar, so merkwürdig dem Sagen und Formulieren entrückt; Mitteilungen aus diesem Bereich des Lebens schienen nicht zu den Zwecken der Sprache zu zählen. Wurde man ausnahmsweise dabei einmal ein Stück weit verstanden, dann war der Verstehende ein Mann in ähnlicher Lage, ein Mitleidender oder Miterwachender.Ein Stückchen weit hatte Fritz Tegularius ihn gelegentlich verstanden, noch weiter hatte Plinios Verständnis gereicht.Wen konnte er sonst noch nennen? Niemand. Natürlich ist das eine hegelianische Bewegung. Das Subjekt erkennt erst am Ende was es geworden ist. Das Werden an sich bleibt daher ausgespart. Er schützt sich vor dem inneren Prozess durch den Herausgeber oder Historiker der bewusst eine distanzierte Haltung einnimmt. Nur hin und wieder gibt es Einschübe die aus Knechts Notizen hervorgehen, die zwar etwas Imaginäres durch lassen, aber immer noch viel zu formal ordnend sind, als dass eine Art dialektischer Vollzug im Text erfahrbar wird. Ich bin auf die nachträgliche Deutung angewiesen.Ich verstehe warum Hesse die Form gewählt hat. Aus den vorherigen Lektüren geht klar hervor, dass Hesse nur ein unkontrolliertes Imaginäres kennt. Impuls und Affekt ohne strukturelle Rückbindung. Insofern bleibt ihm nur die Möglichkeit dies zu disziplinieren und domestizieren. Ihm gelingt keine Durchlässigkeit. Er wählt daher eine Form, die höflich distanziert diese Lebendigkeit in symbolische Ketten legt. Die Widersprüche dürfen nur meditativ wirken, die Dialektik findet introvertiert statt. Der eigentliche Konflikt wird formästhetisch neutralisiert. Es gibt kein "Trotzdem". Für mich stellt sich das als Ort der Verdrängung, Zähmung und der Flucht dar. Ein zähes, dröges Unterfangen.Hesse hat darum gerungen das Lebendige in die eigene Struktur einzubinden, es ernst zu nehmen, ohne davon überflutet zu werden. Für mich versagen seine Mittel.Ein kohärentes Imaginäres durch radikale Reflexion, wäre so eine Möglichkeit gewesen, an den Grenzzonen des Symbolischen für Vermittlung zu sorgen.UPDATE 2025-06-21 Stand Mittags - ohne das Buch beendet zu haben Da lese ich heute Paul Feyerabend: Und meine These ist, daß der theoretische Anarchismus zum Fortschritt in jedem Sinne beiträgt, den man sich aussuchen mag. Selbst eine »Gesetz- und Ordnungs«-Wissenschaft wird nur dann Erfolg haben, wenn gelegentlich anarchistische Schritte zugelassen werden. Es ist also klar, daß der Gedanke einer festgelegten Methode oder einer feststehenden Theorie der Vernünftigkeit auf einer allzu naiven Anschauung vom Menschen und seinen sozialen Verhältnissen beruht.Wer sich dem reichen, von der Geschichte gelieferten Material zuwendet und es nicht darauf abgesehen hat, es zu verdünnen, um seine niedrigen Instinkte zu befriedigen, nämlich die Sucht nach geistiger Sicherheit ın Form von Klarheit‚ Präzision‚ Objektivität‚ Wahrheit‚ der wird einsehen, daß es nur einen Grundsatz gibt, der sich unter allen Umständen und in allen Stadien der menschlichen Entwicklung vertreten läßt. Es ist der Grundsatz: Anything goes.Ach was, der niedrige Instinkt ist die Präzision und Wahrheit Kastaliens und seines Glasperlenspiels? Und Knechts anarchistische Geste ist es diese Ordnung zu verlassen?Mit meiner Methode fahre ich im Buch vor die Wand. Ist meine Methode falsch?Ich bin ja nur in der Lage aufzuzeigen was das Buch nicht macht. Aber was macht es denn? Was genau beinhaltet die anarchistische Geste des Buches?Jou, das Verlassen eines Systems. Aus einem epistemiologischen Zweifel. Kastilien erkennt das Leben nicht an. Das erkennt Knecht. Und Hesse möchte über die Form als erkenntniskritische Setzung vermitteln, dass es ihm ua. um das Erkennen des Nichterkennens geht. Mein Zugang zu Hegel und Lacan sind hier überhaupt nicht fruchtbar. Hesse fragt zwar „Was machen wir, wenn alles gehen könnte?“ Seine Antwort ist aber nicht durchleben des Chaos und Prozessbegleitung, sonderndas Erschaffen einer disziplinierten Form, damit er nicht ertrinkt. Ihm geht es nur um die Entscheidung die getroffen wurde. Ohne Kampf und Aufsehen zu gehen. UPDATE 2025-06-21 Stand Abends Buch beendet Daraufhin las ich das Buch nun doch zu Ende. Und: ich bin ein Idiot! Dieses Buch muss beendet werden, weil erst die letzte Seite alles an seinen Platz rückt. Wir wissen, Knecht geht ins Leben ohne es zu kennen. Er erkennt es an, verschmilzt aber nicht mit ihm. Eine Bewegung nach wie vor aus dem Geist, da das imaginäre gebändigt bleiben muss. Hier bleibe ich bei meiner Lesart der Abbruchrezension. Hesse schreibt sich und den Geist an den äußersten Rand und begibt sich in einen Schwellenraum. Der Geist Knechts, hat nie gelernt was es heißt zu leben. Er kennt nicht die Gefahr des Affekts, des Körperlichen. Deshalb entlässt er den Geist des Spiels und auch den Knechts, vielleicht seinen eigenen – gibt ihn frei, damit etwas anderes Leben kann, das tragfähig ist. Damit ein Geist ermöglicht werden kann, der sprechen kann, ohne die Form zu beschädigen an dessen Grenze Hesse sich nun befindet. Hesse schreibt mit dem Glasperlenspiel eine symbolische Verfehlung in Form eines doppelten Abschied. Leise, still, verantwortungsbewusst.
2644609259	A Revisit To CastaliaIn my college years, I was much taken with Herman Hesse and read many of his novels including his last, longest and most difficult book "The Glass Bead Game". Then, for many years I left Hesse alone with my dislike of the counter-culture which developed in the United States when Hesse became widely read. I have recently returned years after retirement to reread several of Hesse's books, including, most recently "The Glass Bead Game". With the book's exploration of the life of the mind and the spirit and their relationship to the more basic, mundane concerns of human beings, the book's theme struck home with me when young and still does. Many people with intellectual, spiritual interests will feel the tug of "The Glass Bead Game". It is a work of art, deeply insightful, but long and in places something of a bore.Written in 1943, the book is set in a fictitious academic community called Castalia in the distant future, probably the 25th century. There is a feeling of distancing in the setting and yet also a feeling of immediacy in the problems addressed in the book. Castalia is meant as a scholarly community devoted to study rather than to professional work in subjects such as law or medicine which continue to be taught at more conventional universities for the more usual students interested in education as a means to a career. The book's primary character, Joseph Knecht, becomes an student at Castalia in early adolescence when his gift for music is recognized by the mysterious music-master who mentors Knecht for most of his life. Knecht remains in the Castalian community where he learns and rises and ultimately is accepted into the highest reaches of its hierarchy. Some, but not all, the scholars at Castalia play what is known as the Glass Bead Game. The details of the game remain obscure but its point is to find the underlying ideals and unity underlying all human knowledge. A heavy sense of philosophical idealism and monism underlies the game. Knecht becomes a master of the game and at the age of 40 becomes the "Magister Ludi" the person in the Castalian order with highest responsibility for the game, its teaching, and its annual festival. At the height of his powers, Knecht becomes disillusioned with Castalia and leaves the order for the outside world to teach and soon dies.The book is slow and extraordinarily detailed. This befits its theme but makes for a lengthy, deliberate reading experience. "The Glass Bead Game" shows beautifully the allurements of the life of the mind with focus on music, literature and mathematics. Castilians are also taught meditation; and the book combines both Eastern and Western wisdom. Readers who have ever been in love with study or spirituality will understand the appeal developed in this book.Hesse also describes the necessarily slow awakening and change in Joseph Knecht. In his early days at Castalia, Knecht became known as a debater who eloquently championed the values of the order against a challenger from the outside world. As Knecht advances, he meets others who challenge his commitment, including his brilliant but highly erratic best friend, a historian-monk in the Benedictine Order, and a reclusive sage of Ancient China. These characters are slowly and well-developed and are modeled on various historical figures. Knecht's interactions with these and other individuals and his own reflections ultimately result in his leaving the order. He continues his love of the mind and the spirit. He concludes that matters of mind and spirit must not be pursued in isolation as in Castalia but rather in the messy world outside the order. And so people of a certain bent will think about themselves and their actions, in Castalia, in Hesse's day, and in ours. The book has an unusual organization. It is recounted by a nameless, pedantic narrator. It begins with a long introductory chapter about Castalia and its history before proceeding for most of the length of the book with the biography of Knecht. The final 100 pages or so of the work are an appendix with includes poems and three lives written by Knecht during his years as a student. These are integral to the book and show the issues Knecht faced during his life transported to earlier, far different times.The book is highly internalized with little in the way of action. Readers should be prepared to spend some time with the work which under the best of circumstances will be a struggle to read in places.Not every reader will care to follow this book. I was glad to visit Castalia, Joseph Knecht, and Hesse again and to think about how the themes addressed in the book have played out in my own life.Robin Friedman
4027699728	TL;DR - 9/10, One of my new all-time fav books! For philosophical scholarly types, thoughtful aesthetes, anybody in academia, and perhaps even spiritually-adjacent folk. Non-traditional narrative structure lacking action / fictional historical biography. Discusses the external-oriented life of action vs. the inward-oriented life of mind and pursuit of truth & beauty, whether one lives as a part of history or apart from it, the nature of self-directed growth vs. that of losing one's individuality as part of something greater, and more. Finally, it features the super awesome *Glass Bead Game* which seeks to unify all fields into a single discipline of study / artistic mode of expression."These rules, the sign language and grammar of the Game, constitute a kind of highly developed secret language drawing upon several sciences and arts, but especially mathematics and music...capable of expressing and establishing interrelationships between the content and conclusions of nearly all scholarly disciplines. The Glass Bead Game is thus a mode of playing with the total contents and values of our culture; it plays with them as, say, in the great age of the arts a painter might have played with the colors on his palette. All the insights, noble thoughts, and works of art that the human race has produced in its creative eras, all that subsequent periods of scholarly study have reduced to concepts and converted into intellectual property on all this immense body of intellectual values the Glass Bead Game player plays like the organist on an organ. And this organ has attained an almost unimaginable perfection; its manuals and pedals range over the entire intellectual cosmos; its stops are almost beyond number. Theoretically this instrument is capable of reproducing in the Game the entire intellectual content of the universe."Our story is primarily written from the perspective of 25th-century historians looking back at an undefined past period and chronicling the life of our main character, Joseph Knecht. His life takes place many years after major wars ravaged Europe. These events slowly led to the development of a fictional province, Castalia, separated from the world around it, reserved for a monk-like but secular community of scholars whose primary goal is to live the life of the mind without much regard for politics, economics, or technological advancement. Central to this motivation and their order is the preservation and synthesis of all arts, sciences, & humanities. To pursue this, they have systematically incorporated many fields of study into a single discipline and medium of expression that forms the core of their order and aesthetic worship, The Glass Bead Game. This novel starts off with an introduction to the origins and development of The Game. Like many artifacts of mankind, the foundations of The Game have been shaped by the particular historical trajectory of the zeitgeist & cultural womb that birthed it. A significant section of the novel is devoted to critiquing a prior period called The Age of Feuilleton (from which we might agree that this represents a critique of our culture in Hesse's time). This era was marked by an incredible degree of intellectual freedom and unfettered growth of what we might call a culture of opinions, trends, and disconnected hyper-specialized trivia, an "era emphatically bourgeois" and superficial information consumption. From Hesse:"We must confess that we cannot provide an unequivocal definition of those products from which the age takes its name, the feuilletons. They seem to have formed an uncommonly popular section of the daily newspapers, were produced by the millions, and were a major source of mental pabulum for the reader in want of culture. They reported on, or rather "chatted" about, a thousand-and-one items of knowledge.""A torrent of zealous scribbling poured out over every ephemeral incident, and in quality, assortment, and phraseology all this material bore the mark of mass goods rapidly and irresponsibly turned out."The historians of the future further comment on their surprise at not only how people seemed to devour this chit-chat for their daily reading, but actually thought it was what constituted the standard educational diet of a good citizen, with all that mattered was to link a well-known name to a current topic of interest. Perhaps more surprisingly, this was not only limited to a critique of the average person on the streets, but also the large number of intellectuals that helped produce content for this machine, as well as those younger people and supposed educated class where entertaining or impassioned lectures were consumed and distilled into one or two catchwords with an accompanying picture (memes anyone?) based on works they'll probably never read. Hesse explains: "The life of the mind in the Age of the Feuilleton might be compared to a degenerate plant which was squandering its strength in excessive vegetative growth, and the subsequent corrections to pruning the plant back to the roots. The young people...attending a university and taking a nibble of this or that from the dainties offered by celebrated and loquacious professors who without authority offered them the crumbs of what had once been higher education."Furthermore, this critique by future historians seems to take on an almost moralistic angle of spiritual corruption in that these people were engaging in all of this in hopes of serving as a temporary salve to their existential dread, spasmodically moving through life with no real belief in a tomorrow. And after a combination of destructive wars and the above, it is here where Hesse's future historians explain the cultural turn towards creating the secular (but still religious in its very uniquely aesthetic way), Castalian Order. An order that cultivates a drive for deep knowledge that cuts across arbitrary disciplinary lines and hints at something more fundamental, lasting, and greater than the empty and dry, fact-based husk of the previous culture, a cultivation of personal meaning and the sense of one's place in the grand arc of the universe. A very Platonistic weaving of ethics, beauty, and truth. In fact, it's interesting to note that Castalia references the mythological Greek naiad-nymph who transformed herself into a fountain at Delphi. And that drinking from the waters of her fountain was not only a rite among the contestants in the Pythian Games where fitness, music, poetry, and painting were celebrated, but also a sacred part of the Delphic Oracles who gave prophecies in the form of poetic dactylic hexameters, all of which seem to hold sacred some sort of pursuit of Truth. At a very superficial level, this combination of pious monastic-life, knowledge curation, and artistic expression reminds me of other works of fiction like Anathem by Stephenson, or A Canticle for Leibowitz by Miller, and delightful aesthetic vibes with the animated film The Secret of Kells. And the slightly magical bildungsroman element certainly reminds me of the young protagonist in Le Guin's children fantasy novel, A Wizard of Earthsea, growing up and learning the secrets of the Language that governs the world and how ultimately he must seek his own spiritual balance within it.Like most people, the almost mystical descriptions of The Glass Bead Game are what initially drew me into the book. Hesse explains how the development of The Game grew from a combination of this previous moral bankruptcy and isolated communities of knowledge, and how some dreamed of a new universal language of communication, cutting across all the sciences, humanities, and arts. Here we can see real-life parallels to both C.P. Snow's famous work, The Two Cultures, where he decries the split between the sciences and the humanities and the consequent detriment to society, in addition to Gottfried Leibniz's Characteristica Universalis, in which he sought to represent all forms of knowledge in common symbolism, to which one could eventually calculate on and resolve all disputes with his Calculus Ratiocinator. From Hesse:"Some dreamed of a new alphabet, a new language of symbols through which they could formulate and exchange their new intellectual experiences…Such a language...should be able to express the most complex matters graphically, without excluding individual imagination and inventiveness, in such a way as to be understandable to all the scholars of the world"The historians go on to describe the humble origins of The Game:"...the pupils at the Cologne Seminary had a rather elaborate game they used to play. One would call out, in the standardized abbreviations of their science, motifs or initial bars of classical compositions, whereupon the other had to respond with the continuation of the piece, or better still with a higher or lower voice, a contrasting theme, and so forth. It was an exercise in memory and improvisation quite similar to the sort of thing probably in vogue among ardent pupils of counterpoint in the days of Schütz, Pachelbel, and Bach—although it would then not have been done in theoretical formulas, but in practice on the cembalo, lute, or flute, or with the voice."And that this one musician in particular, "...was adept at playing the violin in the old way, forgotten since 1800, with a high-arched bow and hand-regulated tension of the bow hairs. Given these interests, it was perhaps only natural that he should have constructed a frame, modeled on a child’s abacus, a frame with several dozen wires on which could be strung glass beads of various sizes, shapes, and colors. The wires corresponded to the lines of the musical staff, the beads to the time-values of the notes, and so on. In this way he could represent with beads musical quotations or invented themes, could alter, transpose, and develop them, change them and set them in counterpoint to one another. In technical terms this was a mere plaything, but the pupils liked it...For a time the game of musical exercises was played in this charmingly primitive manner. And as is so often the case, an enduring and significant institution received its name from a passing and incidental circumstance. For what later evolved out of that students’ sport and Perrot’s bead-strung wires bears to this day the name by which it became popularly known, The Glass Bead Game."From here we witness its popularity shifting from music students to mathematicians, bringing the game a high degree of flexibility and possibility. Once this was achieved we begin to see players showing up from various disciplines and casting their own field into the language of the mathemusical game, eventually abstracting the physical glass beads into a symbolic, calligraphic language of icons, incorporating linguistics and classical philology, astronomy and physics, architecture, the visual arts, and so on, such that one can start from a particular musical piece, connect it with a psychological analysis of poetry from a particular historical figure, and then use the underlying patterns to predict the motion of the stars. Because of its pursuit of an underlying singular Truth to all things and multiplicities within itself, more pious thinkers began to associate it with an achievement of perfection, pure being, and fullness of reality, and "[t]hus, 'realizing' was a favorite expression among the players", beginning to incorporate practices of absolute absorption and meditation into the game, such that it was less like a competitive game in the traditional sense of the term, and more like a playful exercise of personal reflection. This last part calls to mind a particular perspective in mathematics known as Game Semantics where we can re-interpret things like mathematical proofs (and by the Curry-Howard Isomorphism programs too) as a game resembling a Socratic dialogue or exchange of information.This connection between the pursuit of Truth with the expression of Beauty clearly has Pythagorean and Platonistic influences, especially with the whole melding of mathematics and music. And despite opposition by certain philosophers and scientists that generally fall under Korzybski's 'The Map is not the Territory', the significance of these 'Beauty=Truth=Good' ideas have echoed and reverberated many times throughout history, taking the form of Voltaire's Candide, Kepler's Harmonices Mundi, Occam's Razor / Law of Parsimony of 'simplicity is best', and numerous instantiations of the general Variational Principle throughout physics. From the Castalian monks: "With us scholarship, which is the cult of truth, is chiefly allied also with the cult of the beautiful, and also with the practice of spiritual refreshment by meditation."And because of this, these same real-life disputes between the Aristotelians vs. Platonists, the Empiricists vs. Rationalists, and even the famous paper by Wigner on The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Mathematics in the Natural Sciences arise on whether The Glass Bead Game can really capture all of reality or is it just pure navel-gazing insular introspection of a language talking about itself. You can see this philosophical disagreement being played out between Knecht's mentors: "Once Knecht confessed to his teacher that he wished to learn enough to be able to incorporate the system of I Ching into the Glass Bead Game. Elder Brother laughed. ‘Go ahead and try,’ he exclaimed. ‘You’ll see how it turns out. Anyone can create a pretty little bamboo garden in the world. But I doubt that the gardener would succeed in incorporating the world in his bamboo grove.'"versus "Should we be mindful of dreams?" Joseph asked. "Can we interpret them?"The Master looked into his eyes and said tersely: "We should be mindful of everything, for we can interpret everything."With all that said, there are many more ideas this novel touches upon. The culture of ivory tower academia and whether it stands apart from or is embedded within society, the nature of mentorship, the value of neurodiversity and the dance between seemingly contradictory philosophies, the extinguishing of the self as one becomes subsumed within a hierarchy, and many other topics.Lastly, if you are like me and enjoy thematically pairing up your fictional reads with concurrent non-fictional material for a richer experience, I read this book alongside Rothstein's Emblems of the Mind + Tymoczko's A Geometry of Music. Another decent book would be Mazzola's The Topos of Music. Mazzola has an excellent article of his own discussing The Glass Bead Game and its connections to Category Theoretic ideas (moving beads along string diagrams anyone?), and whose theories are also addressed by the same Tymoczko above. Small world! CONCLUSIONI'm honestly wondering why I haven't come across this book much sooner, since this simply resonates with my soul. I immediately fell in love with it from just the first 30 or so pages, and it's now ranked as one of my all-time favorite books. Special thanks to my friends Max Krieger + Prathyush from this charming interdisciplinary Discord group based on the "the aesthetics of formal things" for calling my attention to this.So why the 9/10 rating? I expect most readers will find the cadence tedious, with the slow and non-action-based plot leading to an abrupt ending, followed by poems, and then concluding with 3 short stories. I personally would've chosen a meta-artistic route mirroring the book's themes, incorporating the poems + short stories within the bulk of the book rather than appending them to the end, similar in style to my all-time favorite book, Gödel, Escher, Bach by Hofstadter, or maybe even Cloud Atlas by Mitchell. I would then tastefully & playfully incorporate some classical music🎶, calligraphy🕉️, poetry📚, I Ching symbolism🥢, and mathematics❄️ throughout the novel. I think something like this would have made Hesse's novel feel more cohesive and integrated in delicious logical-poetic knots of self-reference, very similar to a Glass Bead Game composition being played out, allowing Hesse's novel to paint nuanced emotional strokes to artistic depths :)"In the psychological Game...the object was to create unity and harmony, cosmic roundedness and perfection, not so much in the choice, arrangement, interweaving, association, and contrast of the contents as in the meditation which followed every stage of the Game.“The Game as I conceive it...encompasses the player after the completion of meditation as the surface of a sphere encompasses its center, and leaves him with the feeling that he has extracted from the universe of accident and confusion a totally symmetrical and harmonious cosmos, and absorbed it into himself."
2020893741	Am citit pentru prima dată Jocul cu mărgele de sticlă în liceu, inițial doar pentru că era lectură obligatorie la disciplina Literatura universală, ca să-mi lase în cele din urmă (ca și Un veac de singurătate, citită tot atunci și în același context), o impresie atît de puternică încît și după treizeci de ani, deși îmi aminteam doar în linii mari despre ce era vorba în roman, o consideram capodopera lui Hermann Hesse. E drept, pe vremea aceea eram obsedată de sincretisme, de sinteze și de conexiuni culturale, de formule magice care să-mi permită navigarea simultană pe planuri cît mai diverse, așa că ideea unificării artelor și a științelor într-o viziune globală, independentă de jugul istoriei cu diacronismele ei enervante, mi se părea grandioasă.Trei decenii mai tîrziu, închid din nou cartea ușor dezamăgită de astă dată de caracterul ei prea hibrid, de tonul excesiv didactic care nu o lasă să fie cu adevărat nici un bildungsroman, nici un roman de idei, nici un roman alegoric, nici utopic sau/ și distopic, deși, avînd cîte puțin din toate, pare la un moment-dat că e gata să le ofere generos cititorului in nuce. E adevărat, am regăsit magia vocii narative din Siddhartha , Demian , sau Lupul de stepă, dar nu și titanica încleștare psihologică din care s-au înălțat glorioșii eroi plecați în căutarea cunoașterii, dintre care cel mai fascinant rămâne, pentru mine, Emil Sinclair. În excelenta sa Prefață, Ion Roman e de părere că Hesse și-a propus să scrie „o biografie pură, o biografie spirituală” a unui erou desprins de lumea materială, evoluînd doar în planul ideilor și că această inițiativă destul de riscantă din punct de vedere literar (Anii de drumeție ai lui Wilhelm Meister a lui Goethe, de exemplu, deși l-a influențat pe autor, rămîne o operă pedagogică seacă) îi reușește totuşi. Nu contest adevărul acestei afirmații, dar, în ciuda modernității construcției narative și a farmecului discret al eroului, Josef Knecht rămâne pentru mine doar un Demian rarefiat, în timp ce Plinio nu e decît un Emil oprit în mijlocul drumului.După mine, cea mai interesantă din punct de vedere literar, anticipînd neașteptat postmodernismul este, cum spuneam și mai sus, construcția narativă, care combină mai multe tehnici și stiluri (biografic, epistolar, poetic, fantastic, pseudo-SF etc.) pe mai multe voci: vocea biografică a primului narator, vocea auctorială a eroului (în poezii și ca al treilea narator al propriilor biografii) și vocea omniscientă și colectivă de făuritor de mituri a celui de-al doilea narator din „Legenda” care încheie biografia lui Josef Knecht.Romanul se deschide cu o Introducere, în care o voce din viitor (Hesse a sugerat undeva că ar fi vorba de secolul al XXV-lea), anunță că intenționează să prezinte viața lui Josef Knecht, magister ludi, figură între legendă si realitate care a jucat un rol important în modernizarea și consolidarea provinciei Castalia. Cu acest prilej naratorul anonim (anonim pentru că, așa cum o precizează el însuși, de multă vreme individualitatea și ierarhiile au fost desființate de societatea în care trăiește) face un scurt istoric al Provinciei și al jocului cu mărgele de sticlă. Însuși faptul că această incursiune în trecut i se pare relevantă va căpăta semnificații pentru cititor atunci cînd va afla că pe vremea lui Knecht istoria era considerată o disciplină neimportantă și oarecum vulgară, fiind încă un argument cu privire la impactul profund pe care l-a avut eroul asupra viitorului Provinciei.Ca o paranteză, mi s-a părut foarte apropriată denumirea de „epocă foiletonistică” dată secolului al XX-lea (și de a cărei realitate nici secolul nostru nu e cu totul străin) cunoscută astfel în viitor pentru că știința și cultura se reduseseră la dezvăluirea unor aspecte senzaționale din viața (și mai puțin din creația) personalităților, iar oamenii se refugiau în jocuri culturale „plăcute și stupide” (între care dezlegarea de cuvinte încrucișate, plăcere care nici pe mine nu mă ocolește, mărturisesc cu rușine ☺ ) pentru a uita de fierberile și de cutremurele politice, „căci se aflau aproape fără apărare în fața morții, a spaimei, a durerii, a foamei, în vreme ce bisericile nu mai aveau puterea să-i aline, iar spiritul nu-i mai consilia.”Ca orice biografie care se respectă, cea a lui Josef Knecht începe (sau ar trebui să înceapă) cu genealogia sa. Dar aceasta rămîne necunoscută pentru că, orfan, băiatul a fost educat de „autoritatea educativă”, lucru benefic pentru el, crede naratorul, de vreme ce au fost evitate astfel conflictele inerente dintre școala de elită și familie, care îngreunau și uneori chiar împiedicau intrarea în Ordin a unor tineri foarte dotați. Astfel, de la început lumea lui lăuntrică și cea exterioară s-au putut dezvolta în mod armonios, fără trauma despărțirii de familie pe care o încercau de obicei tinerii care treceau de la școlile tradiționale la școlile din Castalia. Și totuși, acest echilibru rămîne doar aparent, căci Knecht, așa cum o sugerează și numele său, care înseamnă în limba germană „slugă” dar care are aceeași origine cu cuvîntul englezesc „knight” – „cavaler”, nu este ferit de contradicții. Poate și ca o revoltă subconștientă împotriva propriului nume, încă din copilărie Josef este obsedat de adevăr ca de forma supremă a libertății, încercînd să-l transforme în obiect de studiu, ceea ce-l determină pe mentorul său, maestrul muzicii, să-l avertizeze cu blândețe:— Adevărul există, dragul meu! Dar învățătura pe care o râvnești, învățătura absolută, desăvârșită, singura care să te poată face înțelept, aceea nu există. Nu trebuie nicide¬cum să năzuiești către o învățătură desăvârșită, prietene, ci către propria ta desăvârșire. Dumnezeirea se află în tine însuți, nu în noțiuni și în cărți. Adevărul este trăit, nu predat de la catedră.Crescut în lumea artificială, exclusiv spirituală, a ordinului castalian, prima confruntare cu lumea din afară o va avea prin intermediul noului său prieten Plinio Designori, băiat de familie bogată, foarte inteligent, dar căruia nici prin gînd nu-i trece să devină castalian. Cei doi polemizează adesea în public, spre deliciul colegilor și al profesorilor, despre superioritatea uneia sau a alteia dintre cele două lumi: una simplă, materială, haotică, poate, dar mult mai aproape de natură, cealaltă complexă, spirituală, ordonată, e drept, dar sufocant de artificială. Tînărului Josef i se pare că există doar o cale de urmat și anume slujirea celei din urmă, dat fiind că la rîndul ei „mica lume castaliană o slujea pe cea mare, îi dădea profesori, cărți, metode, se îngrijea de păstrarea purității funcțiunilor spirituale și a moralei, își ținea porțile deschise ca școală și adăpost pentru acel mic număr de oameni al căror destin părea să fie acela de a-și pune viața în slujba spiritului și a adevărului.” Pentru Plinio însă, o viață exclusiv spirituală este doar pe jumătate trăită: „La rându-mi, am datoria să rea¬mintesc mereu cât de riscantă, plină de primejdii și în cele din urmă stearpă e o viață așezată exclusiv pe temelia spiri¬tului.”Deși aparent convins că drumul său este cel bun, Josef se va întreba de fapt toată viața sa care dintre cele două lumi duce spre adevăr și pentru a afla răspunsul va părăsi în cele din urmă universul familiar, sigur dar limitat, renunțînd la cea mai rîvnită poziție din Castalia, cea de magister ludi. Așa cum Plinio voise odinioară să întruchipeze în ființa sa sinteza vie a celor două lumi, Josef ar dori să devină puntea de legătură între ele, ferm convins că nici una nu ar putea supraviețui fără cealaltă. Deși îşi găsește sfîrșitul abia ieșit în lumea largă, moartea sa este doar aparent prematură: așa cum observa Ion Roman, el a predat deja ștafeta fiului lui Plinio, „care va reuni armonios, nu ca un Ianus cu două fețe, ci prin supra¬punere și contopire, îngerul și demonul ce încă își încru¬cișează spadele în sufletul omenesc.”Cele trei biografii scrise de Josef nu sînt decît alte trei variante ale drumului spre cunoaștere, amintind, toate patru (mi s-a părut interesantă această asociere pe care o face Wikipedia ), de cele patru funcții psihice de bază din psihologia analitică: senzorială (Josef Knecht, șamanul aducător de ploaie), intuitivă (Dasa, zbătîndu-se în pînza de păianjen a Mayei), emotivă (Iosefus Famulus, duhovnicul devenit novice) și cognitivă (Josef Knecht, magister ludi). Întrebarea care m-a obsedat pe tot parcursul lecturii (și al cărei răspuns ar clarifica poate nedumerirea cu privire la statutul utopic sau distopic al Castaliei) rămâne aceasta: este în viziunea autorului creația doar un mijloc (adesea secundar) de a ajunge la cunoaștere? Pentru că, să nu uităm, aceasta este interzisă în Provincie, unde singurele opere originale tolerate au rămas biografiile:E o mare fericire că suntem în posesia acestor opere, iar noi, castalienii, trăim aproape exclusiv de pe urma lor, noi nu mai suntem creatori altfel decât în reproduceri, noi trăim permanent în acea sferă de dincolo, atemporală și lipsită de lupte, care constă tocmai din acele opere și fără acestea nici nu ne-ar fi cunoscută, în spiritualizare, sau, dacă vrei, în abstractizare, noi mergem încă și mai departe: în jocul nostru cu mărgele de sticlă descompunem operele înțelepților și ale artiștilor în părțile lor, extragem din ele reguli stilistice, scheme formale, inter¬pretări sublimate și operăm cu aceste abstracțiuni ca și când ar fi pietre de construcție.Poate că răspunsul îl oferă ideea însăși de biografie, singura operă literară care amestecă realitatea și ficțiunea într-atît încît nu mai știi unde începe una și unde se termină cealaltă: în sensul că cele două devin inseparabile, așa cum lumea materială și cea spirituală sînt inseparabile. La urma urmelor, dacă ar seca creația, cunoașterea ar rămîne un banal și steril joc cu mărgele de sticlă care nu și-ar mai schimba vreodată numărul, așa cum dacă ar dispărea cunoașterea, creația n-ar mai fi decît o imagine suficientă ei însăși, ca un răsărit de soare sau o brazdă de pămînt reavăn sau o adiere de aripă care nu se mai reverberează în sufletul nimănui. Ca și Demian treizeci de ani mai devreme, Jocul cu mărgele de sticlă, ultimul roman al lui Hermann Hesse, pentru care autorul va primi în 1946 premiul Nobel pentru literatură, nu a putut fi publicat în Germania de asta dată nazistă și a apărut tot în Elveția în 1943. Discreditat și insultat de ai săi, că nimeni nu e profet în țara lui, dar înțelept și senin, bătrînul scriitor dăruiește cititorilor săi un ultim autoportret al unui magister ludi care se încăpățînează încă să creadă că arta e singurul mijloc de a scăpa de iluzia existenței, de a se elibera de maya:Ultimul jucător cu mărgele de sticlăȚinând în mână jocul colorat,/ Stă ghemuit, iar țara-n lung și-n lat/ După război și ciumă e-n ruine,/ Iar printre iederi zumzăie albine./ Trudită pace-n stihuri de psaltire /Răsună stins peste bătrâna fire./ Moșneagul stă mărgele numărând,/ Albastră-i una, albă alta-n șir,/ și mari și mici alege după rând./ Le-așază-n cerc, ca pentru joc, pe fir./ A fost cândva maestru în simboluri,/ Artist dotat și poliglot a fost, / și lumea a știut-o pe de rost, / dar faima lui răzbise pân’ la poluri, / Colegi avea, si-nvățături da multe. / Acum, bătrân, căzut, însingurat, / Nici un școlar nu vine să-l asculte, / Nu-l cheamă nici un meșter la duel; / S-au dus, și templele s-au spulberat, / și școli și cărți pieriră. Numai el / Printre ruine stă cu jocu-n mână, / Aceste ieroglife-n sens bogate / Cândva sunt astăzi doar pestrițe cioburi. / Maestrului îi scapă, deșirate, / Și pier, amestecându-se-n țărână...
5400978579	Ein Literatur gewordenes Ja und Mehr. Inhalt: 5/5 Sterne (wacher, lebenshungriger Werdegang) Form: 5/5 Sterne (fließend, tragend, ozeanisch)Komposition: 5/5 Sterne (fugenhaft verwebt, spiralförmig vernetzt)Leseerlebnis: 5/5 Sterne (Lebenslust spendend)Nach Das Glasperlenspiel (1943) veröffentlichte Hermann Hesse nur noch Gedichte und Erzählungen, bevor er 1962 verstarb. Mit seinem magnus opum beendete er die Spättrilogie, die mit Der Steppenwolf begann und Narziß und Goldmund als Mittelteil besitzt. In Das Glasperlenspiel vermittelt er wieder die beiden Kunstpositionen: das Apollinische (Formversessene) und Dionysische (Ekstatische), nur dieses Mal nicht als im Nacheinander (wie bei Harry Haller in Der Steppenwolf) noch im Nebeneinander (wie mit Narziss und Goldmund), sondern in ein und derselben, sich wandelnden, verwandelnden Figur Josef Knechts:Was ich suche, ist nicht so sehr Stillung einer Neugierde oder einer Lüsternheit auf das Weltleben als vielmehr Unbedingtheit. Ich wünsche nicht in die Welt hinauszugehen mit einer Rückversicherung für den Fall einer Enttäuschung in der Tasche, ein vorsichtiger Reisender, der sich ein wenig in der Welt umsieht. Ich begehre im Gegenteil Wagnis, Erschwerung und Gefahr, ich bin hungrig nach Wirklichkeit, nach Aufgaben und Taten, auch nach Entbehrungen und Leiden.Es ließen sich nun viele Parallelen und weite Bögen spannen und endlos um den heißen Brei herumsalbadern, weshalb Das Glasperlenspiel bislang ein Unikum in der Literaturgeschichte geblieben ist. Hier, im vollen Hunger nach Leben, im voller Klarsicht ob der Komplexität, der Vielschichtigkeit der Emotionen, der Lebenswege, -wünsche und -träume wird exemplarisch ein Lebensweg beschrieben, der niemals passiv, immer aktiv, der immer wünschend-wollend-strebend bleibt und niemals aufgibt noch sich beruhigt. Knecht erinnerte sich jetzt wieder, wie er damals, vom Gedanken seines Gedichtes beschwingt, das Wort »Transzendieren!« hingeschrieben hatte, als einen Zuruf und Befehl, eine Mahnung an sich selbst, als einen neu formulierten und bekräftigten Vorsatz, sein Tun und Leben unter dies Zeichen zu stellen und es zu einem Transzendieren, einem entschlossen-heitern Durchschreiten, Erfüllen und Hintersichlassen jedes Raumes, jeder Wegstrecke zu machen.Die Essenz von Das Glasperlenspiel bildet der Wachstums- und Entfaltungsgedanke, ein gesättigter, dynamisch-rational geläuterter Romantizismus, der die Widerstände als Herausforderung, die Möglichkeiten als zeitweilige Ruhepole, das Leben selbst als Reise begreift. Hesse fährt hier formalästhetisch eine in sich rundende, sich tragende, kreisende Sprache auf, die diesen Schwung musikalisch verstärkt und die Figuren wie Motive durch die Gesamtkomposition zur Entfaltung bringt. Dies begreifend, erkennt, dass Das Glasperlenspiel für viel, aber vor allem für die Literatur selbst steht, als sich durchdringende expressive Weltsprache:So wie die frommen Denker früherer Zeiten etwa das kreatürliche Leben darstellten als zu Gott hin unterwegs und die Mannigfaltigkeit der Erscheinungswelt in der göttlichen Einheit erst vollendet und zu Ende gedacht sahen, so ähnlich bauten, musizierten und philosophierten die Figuren und Formeln des Glasperlenspieles in einer Weltsprache, die aus allen Wissenschaften und Künsten gespeist war, sich spielend und strebend dem Vollkommenen entgegen, dem reinen Sein, der voll erfüllten Wirklichkeit.Erst in der höchsten Abstraktionsstufe, als eine Form der literarisch-gewordenen Hegelschen Logik , erscheinen die Figur, die Motive, die Themen und Stoffe als Kristallisationszentren, an denen sich der offene, sich der Negation stellende Geist Josef Knechts behauptet, bewährt, sich abarbeitet, um über sie hinaus ins Freie zu gelangen. Auf seine Weise ein durch und durch optimistisches Werk. Symbolisiert George Eliots Middlemarch das absolute Wissen, als rational-gerundete Souveränität, so Hesses Das Glasperlenspiel den Geist als Literatur gewordenes, rastlos-wertschöpfendes Ja und Mehr.
39351210	A friend of mine (a pure mathematician) says that the Glass Bead Game is obviously pure mathematics in a thinly disguised form. It's not exactly a slam-dunk, but I'm still surprised how few people there are who seem to believe this theory. You'd think it would at least be a respectable minority opinion.Turn it around: if the Game isn't pure mathematics, what is it? Just something he made up, that doesn't refer to any real intellectual discipline in particular, but is a hypothetical synthesis of all of them? Are there any other reasonable alternatives? Personally, I rather like the "pure mathematics" account.
2079138478	My review is based not on the book itself, as it was read it so long ago, I don't remember details, which is somewhat remarkable, as I remember the effect of the book. transformative, profound revelationary, this is the best I can manage. I was transformed into worlds of thought, deep thought, worlds where intent and meaning reigned. The book required a serious commitment from the reader of Attention and willingness-to-truth, a remarkable requirement, adding to the books magic. A classic that lived up to it billing.
4757276481	Dudaba un poco antes de comenzar a leer este libro porque algunas reseñas lo describían como aburrido, sin embargo a mi lejos de aburrirme me pareció un libro sublime que habla sobre encontrar nuestro lugar en la vida. Es uno de esos libros que se disfrutan con una lectura pausada y sin apuro; ahora, si están buscando una trama vertiginosa, acá no la van a encontrar seguro.La historia se desarrolla aproximadamente en el año 2400, en una provincia llamada Castalia regida por una orden monástica de intelectuales dedicados a la espiritualidad y a la enseñanza.A la orden ingresan desde las provincias aledañas los niños seleccionados por poseer algún talento excepcional, y una vez ingresados ya no vuelven jamas a ver a sus familias. Dentro hay escuelas donde se enseñan distintas disciplinas como por ejemplo música, filología o matemáticas, pero hay una escuela especial, dedicada al orgullo de Castalia, un juego nacido con los inicios de la orden y que representa mejor que nada a la provincia, y es el juego de los abalorios. De que se trata el juego? Se van a desilusionar si esperan saberlo porque el autor nunca lo aclara en detalle, pero en serio que no importa, lo que se sabe es que requiere de mucho estudio y sensibilidad con el fin de conectar todas las disciplinas de la orden en un único punto.La novela en sí, es la biografía de Joseph Knecht, quien ingresa a la orden a los 8 años por sus habilidades en la música y fue ascendiendo hasta convertirse en Magister Ludi, la máxima autoridad del juego de los abalorios en toda Castalia.Pero aparecerá Plinio, un viejo amigo de Joseph de su época de estudiante que viene del exterior para confrontar los pros y los contras de la vida mundana versus la elitista vida de los Castalios.Es un libro en el que acompañamos a Joseph Knecht tratando de encontrar su camino en la vida, y en el medio nos encontramos con un ambiente excelentemente logrado, con mucho clima de espiritualidad y en el que abunda la filosofía pero desde lo cotidiano y no desde lo teórico. Y final no podría ser mejor porque termina con tres cuentos bellísimos que redondean la idea canalizadora de todo el libro.Super recomendable.
53803341	The Glass Bead Game is Hesse's final work, and is supposed to lay out his ideas and philosophies more completely than anything previously. According to my foreword by Ziolkowski, this book represents a progression beyond both the simplistic, egocentric spiritualism of Siddhartha and the Nietzschean misanthropy of Steppenwolf. He also remarks on the book's form: a narration by a stodgy academic about the life of a luminary master. Like Carlsyle's 'Sartor Resartus', there is meant to be an ironic disconnect in what the narrator fails to recognize about the sublime reality of the situation, though Hesse doesn't descend into open absurdism like Teufelsdroeckh's tale.While Carlsyle is unpredictable and madcap, Hesse's narrative is low-key and repetitive. Much of this can be blamed on Hesse's dull narrator, though I was never sure how much. I spent most of the book trying in vain to discern what was meant to be serious philosophy and what was a sly rejection of Hesse's earlier beliefs.The most somber, sacred moments of Hesse's attempt to build a 'Secular Spirituality' often struck me as the least convincing. For example, the more glowingly he described the persona of a secular 'Saint', the more I felt he was describing the effects of a rather serious case of Alzheimer's.Each time he mentioned either the 'sense of peace' or 'childlike smile', they began to seem more sinister. He returned to them again and again, insistently, the sole signs of the character's wisdom, until I couldn't help but mistrust them.It would certainly be a biting satire on the Old Eastern Master who speaks few words, since those he does speak rarely seem to make sense. Usually the student blames their own ignorance, but if the old master is just doddering? The idea is a very cynical one, and quite amusing. Yet it is hard to reconcile this deep satire with the general tone of the work.Hesse doesn't build his ideas from the ground up, at least not that I could see. Much seemed to be assumed. Yet neither was there the revelatory, overawing voice of the poet-philosopher to nudge us from dry narrative to sudden insight. It felt like Lovecraft's old trick of describing how a horrible sight affected a character instead of describing the horror, itself.But it wouldn't do for me to go on any more about cynicism, insightful satire, and poet-philosophers without invoking Nietzsche. He plays a role in the text, literally: the protagonist's unstable, brilliant friend is a caricature of the influential philosopher, and perhaps unsurprisingly, I found his inclusion the most appealing part of the book.It was not merely the presentation of his philosophies, but the way Hesse spoke of him. The passages which describe him are some of the most evocative and heart-felt in the book, which is curious, because he is presented as quite flawed and muddled in thought, though still brilliant.Even when the protagonist scorns him or undermines his rhetoric, Hesse seems unable to truly overcome the force of Nietzsche. He praises his ability to pluck out one part of an argument, a single idea or thought, and with care and insight, cause you to realize for the first time how remarkable it is, or how foolish.Sadly, Hesse himself lacks this great ability, making his critiques less grand than his subject. Yet this, too, seems almost deliberate on Hesse's part.At one point, the protagonist listens as the Nietzsche stand-in goes on a rant about the pointlessness of history. This is representative of the general opinion of Hesse's utopian/dystopian vision of a kind of secular, academic spiritual society which has, to the protagonist's sorrow, lost touch with the world.But to put it in this character's mouth seems hardy appropriate. Certainly, there was a redefinition of the fluidity of history and of the people who made it up in the Hegelian tradition, but it was hardly the insular rejection of humanity put forth here. Nietzsche steeped himself in history, old masters, old thinkers, and ideas, such as the Dyonisian vs. Appolonian philosophies. Perhaps the character was simply convenient, though it undermines the work's own historical attempt to pit real philosophical ideas one against the other. Perhaps this was just another symptom of the detrimental effect Heidegger and Nietzsche's sister have had on how he is viewed today.After shaking his head in silent scorn for his friend's wordy speech, our protagonist goes on to give a similar speech, himself, at the end of the same chapter, about raising of a world of thoughts and ideas above the ugliness of the humanity; the speech even seems to ape in form and style his friend's earlier thoughts.Again, I felt unsure of Hesse's message. Either he again ridicules what he once might have praised, or fails to clearly present his philosophy, or is quibbling between two ways of leaving mankind behind for the sake of ideals without pointing out to us what is meant to separate them.Again I side with Nietzsche's stand-in, and I think, not merely because I am Nietzsche's man, but because I cannot find the point where Hesse has presented his side of the argument as anything except a farce.Likewise the ending of the book seems to make pointless satire of the 'Sacred Transgressive Event' of the hero, which I could appreciate, but if that is the case, then it certainly puts the rest of the book in an odd light.It is not difficult to read it as one of the most dry, sombre, heartfelt, absurdist tracts in literature, but the writings of the most fervent believers cannot always be easily be separated from the satires of the most clever cynics.Three short works complete the book, each a fiction-within-a-fiction attributed to our protagonist. Yet these, too, could either be the budding spirituality of a noble man, or signs of conceit from an ultimate fool.I found the early parts of the book painful to read, not merely because of the dullness of our narrator or the confusion I felt in trying to untangle Hesse's philosophies, but because it is, at it's core, the story of a fairly smart guy who is given everything on a silver platter by a series of wise men who recognize how special he is.It's not merely that this left us without much conflict, it was annoying reading about someone effortlessly achieving things that sound like they would be cool to do. There followed a brief, interesting period of conflicting political machinations, but that soon faded, leaving us with our protagonist's thoughts and inner turmoil.Or, rather, it left us with our narrator's apparent invention of those thoughts. Some of the book is presented as source material--speeches, letters--but most of it seems to be whatever Mr. Frame Story felt was going on at the time.This creates another layer of distance and complexity which compounds the difficulty of any attempt to figure out what, if anything, Hesse is getting at. The narrator constantly seems to think he knows exactly what all the characters were thinking at any point in time, down to their fears, childhood aspirations, and goals for the future. Either Hesse is taking vast liberties with the setup, or this guy is one of the most unreliable narrators we could be blessed with.So, I'm not really sure what Hesse's philosophy is, or even what the character's philosophies were, though I could say something about the narrator's. The whole thing felt like a very low-key farce to me, which would parallel other literature between the world wars. It is interesting as an analysis of the hardships facing academia in the face of the sort of widespread political changes, materialism, and conflict that marked the period leading up to WWII. A lot of cynicism there: the failure of governments, of order, academics, ideas, values. Perhaps it is a deep satire paralleling the inter-war concerns of 'Darkness at Noon' and 'It Can't Happen Here', but if so, it's one of the least impassioned satires I've ever read; not that it would be more impassioned if we consider it a spiritual tome.Or maybe Hesse is just dull, in earnest, and I don't remotely agree with him. That would accord with my memory of Siddhartha, which I found to be full of a rather short-sighted and egotistical personal philosophy centering on Blavatskianisms like the 'law of attraction', which still haunts the self-help section to this day.Let's say that I hope it's a bizarre satire, because I was unable to drag any other poignant message from it.
206215966	(Nice hat!) A good Tratactus on Society; on what distinguishes the normal ones from the elite ones.In Castalia, the Elite (or the Order) pursues the Games of the Mind and its cultivation. An elite member renounces material wealth....and embraces poverty to become a Mandarin of the Mind. That is what Joseph Knecht did.Ah!...at Castalia, they learn meditation (Hesse calls it, so appropriately, psychic hygiene)....and they're in the 23rd century. Students of the Order, most often, renounce marriage. They are quite familiar with the idea of reincarnation (*) and, annually, they have to elaborate a composition (called "A life") which narrates the author in three periods of time, say, for example in Imperial Rome...or in Periclean Athens ...or Austria in Mozart's time; it's up to each one. Language of that period is researched.--(*) I am pleased to got to know recently, that, since 2003, Buddhism has been part of the curriculum of public schools in Berlin; but now, private schools in other German states have been including the matter in their lessons; example: The Internationale Friedensschule (International Peace School) in Cologne.
81100394	إضافة هذه القراءة العتيقة التي وجدتها عندي من عام 2006ربما لو أتيح لي إعادة قراءة الرواية الآن بعد أن زاد في روحي كم كبير من الكتب و السنوات لكنت نظرت إليها بعين أخرى، و ما كنت لأدري ما أقول عنها الآن بأية حال هي رواية تميل لتكون مسنة و حكيمة---على كل هذه القراءة على ما كنت قضيته فيها سابقا، و الله وحده العالم ما كنت لأقضي حاليا فيما لو قرأتها----لمن لعب بالكريات الزجاجية: تعال شاركني2006حاولت عدة مرات أن ألاعب هيرمان هسه بكرياته الزجاجية و لكني كنت أفشل في كل مرة...0إلى أن أتى اليوم الذي قررت فيه أن أعذب نفسي فأجبرتها على مواصلة قراءة الرواية (لعبة الكريات الزجاجية) و التي بلغت عدد صفحاتها (628)... مقاومة النعاس الغريب الذي ينتابني كلما فتحتها... و هكذا أنهيتها بعد مجاهدة دامت أياما طوالا لا أدري كم دامت لمللي...0الغريب أني أتحدث عن رواية من روايات هيرمان هسه العزيز بهذه الطريقة الممجوجة أنا التي لم تعشق مؤلفا أكثر منه... و لم تحرص على أن تقرأ الأعمال الكاملة لأي مؤلف إلاه...0و الأغرب ما يُقال عنها من أنها من أعظم الروايات التي كتبها... بل إنها حائزة على جائزة نوبل عام 1946لذلك و خلافا لعادتي من تبرئة ساحة ذائقتي حين لا أستسيغ كتابا و اتهام المؤلف فإني أتهمني بأني لم أفهمها تماما و لذلك لم تعجبني... أو لأكون أكثر دقة لم تعجبني أول خمسمئة صفحة منها ليس هناك من أحداث أقصها عليكم... فروايات هيرمان عادة تقوم على الأحداث الداخلية لبطلها...القصة بتبسيط ساذج تتحدث عن حياة يوزف كنشت و قد دخل في كستاليا و هي طائفة تعيش في عزلة عن العالم الخارجي و تكرس حياتها للعلم و المعرفة... ذات نسيج هرمي... و أعظم أشكالها العلمية تتجلى في لعبة الكريات الزجاجية... و هي لعبة تعيد الفنون إلى أصولها الرئيسية و تمزج ما بين الشعر و الفن و التاريخ و الموسيقى... لا تسألوني عن كيفية هذه اللعبة فهيرمان لم يخبرنا عن تفاصيلها... هي لعبة متخيلة على أية حال... فما هي ماهية اللعبة التي تحول الألف إلى باء مثلا!!! على أية حال يدخل يوزف هذه الطائفة و يدرس ثم ليصبح مدرسا ثم رئيسا للطائفة ثم ليعتزلها و يموت...0طبعا الرواية تحتاج إلى معرفة واسعة و إطلاع كبير على الآداب و خاصة الموسيقى و الشعر الرومانتيكي الأوربي و خصوصا الألمانية منها... إذ أنها تقوم على تحليلها و ربطها ببعضها... و لذلك لم تعجبني و لم أستشعر مدى الجهد الذي بذله هيرمان في كتابتها... لأني أصلا لا أعرف عن ماذا يتحدث...0ما يعجبني عادة في روايات هيرمان هو الصراع الذي يعيشه البطل تتنازعه رغبات جسده و توق روحه... هو البحث الدؤوب و الحائر عن المطلق و الكمال... عن السكينة و الصفاء... هو العزلة الروحية التي تكتنف كلماته... هو تلك الصوفية الغريبة...0إلا أن يوزف في هذه الرواية بدا ساكنا مطمئنا منذ البداية و حتى النهاية... و حتى في سني شبابه!!! مما جعلني أشعر أن هيرمان كتبها و قد تقدم في السن... بعد أن حاز على شيء من السكينة و الهدوء اللتين كانا يبحث عنهما في رواياته كلها...0المهم أن قصة حياة يوزف تنتهي عند الصفحة (483) و ما بعد ذلك هو الأعمال التي خلفها يوزف من أشعار و ثلاث قصص قصيرة(صانع المطر، كاهن الاعتراف،السيرة الهندية)... و كما ورد على لسان الراوي نفسه الذي يروي سيرة يوزف "بقيت من أعمال يوزف كنشت ثلاث من السير، سنوردها بنصها و نعتبرها بمثابة أثمن جزء من كتابنا كله" ص153و برأيي بالفعل هذه الأعمال هي أهم و أجمل من القصة ذاتها _رغم أن الكتاب كله هو الرواية_ و ربما لو اكتفى بها لكان كافيا بنظري... حسن قد أحببت هذا الجزء المتبقي من الرواية لدرجة أني وددت لو أعرف الألمانية لأقرأ أشعاره بلغتها و موسيقاها...0المخيف بهيرمان حقا هو بعض عباراته التي تحسه ينقلها من عالم آخر... و كأنه كان يشهد شيئا... و كأنه أدرك أخيرا... قد كشف الغطاء و لو لوهلة...0أدعكم مع بعض منها...0"كانت أيامه هي إصباحات لا يمكن تفريقها عن الأمسيات، أعياد لا يمكن تفويتها عن الأيام العادية، ساعات من الهمة لا يمكن تفريقها عن ساعات الفتور و الخور إلا قليلاً، كانت أيامه تنساب كسولة في تعب مشلول و فتور. و اعتقد الرجل أن ما به مصدره شيخوخة و حَزن. و قد حزن لأنه كان يتوقع أن تأتيه شيخوخته التدريجية من خبو نار غرائزه و انفعالاته بصفاء و يسر في حياته و أن تتقدم به خطوة نحو الإنسجام الذي يتوق إليه و إلى راحة النفس الناضجة التي تمناها، فلما بدت الشيخوخة على غير ما كان يرجو، و لم تأته إلا بهذا البوار المتعب الحزين المطبق، و بهذا الشعور بالتخمة المستعصية. كان يحس بالتخمة من كل شيء: مجرد الوجود، من التنفس، من نوم الليل، من الحياة في كهفه على حافة الوادي، من حلول المساء و من حلول الصباح... نعم، لقد اشتاق إلى نهاية، لقد حل به التعب، لقد زاد الأمر و فاض و أصبحت حياته بلا معنى و بلا قيمة، بل لقد أحس في بعض الأحيان يوسوس له أن يضع حدا لحياته و أن يعاقب نفسه و يأتي عليها... حتى كان لا يمسك غصن شجرة إلا و يختبر صلاحيته في تحمل جثته كمنتحر، و لا ينظر إلى صخرة مائلة في المنطقة إلا ليتبين ما إذا كانت تصلح ليهوي عليها إلى الموت. و لقد قاوم الغواية و وقف في وجهها و لم يضعف، و لكنه كان يعيش يومه في لهيب من كراهية الذات و الرغبة في الموت، و ثقلت عليه العيشة و أصبحت شيئا لا طاقة له على احتمالها" ص565-566 هذا المقطع قرأته بدهشة غريبة... أكان يعرفني يا ترى ... لكن لا أخفي أن أملي قد خاب بالشيخوخة المتأملة...0"كان دازا يعرف نصف ما تعنيه كلمة (مايا) و يخمن النصف الآخر... (مايا) كانت هي حياة دازا، و شباب دازا، و سعادة دازا الحلوة و بؤسه المرير... (مايا) كانت الحب و لذته، (مايا) كانت الحياة كلها. حياة دازا و حياة الناس أجمعين، و كل شيء كان في نظر هذا اليوجي الهرم (مايا)، كان شيئا يشبه عبث الطفولة، يشبه التمثيلية و المسرحية و الخيال، كان لا شيء في جلد مزركش، كان فقاعة صابون، كان شيئا يمكن أن يضحك الإنسان منه بمتعة ما و يحتقره في الوقت نفسه، و لا يأخذه مأخذ الجد بحال من الأحوال" ص607 يعني فيكم تقولو إنو (المايا ) هي الحياة الدنيا... مو هيك على أية حال هذا المقطع مأخوذ من (السيرة الهندية) و هي آخر ثلاثين صفحة... برأيي تعدل بل و تزيد على كل ما تقدمها من صفحات...0بإمكاني أن ألخص القول أن لعبة الكريات الزجاجية تعيد كل العلوم و الفنون و المعارف البشرية إلى أصولها الأساسية لتصل إلى نهاية و غاية واحدة... إلى الذي يصدر عنه كل شيء و إليه المنتهى...0و لذك كانت أعلى أشكال العلوم... و لا يتقنها إلا الكبار...0----أريد أن أنهي الكلام بأحد المقطوعات الموسيقية التي ذكرها في روايته هذه و قصيدةأما المقطوعة الموسيقية فهي هذه التوكاتة لباخجمال حد الفزع و الرهبةتتجاوز كل الكلامhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ho9rZ...---و قصيدة أخرى كان لي معها قصة بلهاء، حيث كنت قرأتها سابقا و قبل الرواية في مكان ما، و أخذت بلبي تماما إلى درجة أحسست فيها بخدر لذيذ في رأسي و كنت مستعدة أن أدفع حياتي مقابل أن يجيبني أحدهم أين أجد هذه المعرفة، حتى أني توسلت كالشحاذين لبعضهم علهم يخبروني:\لأكتشف بعد سنين أنه لا وجود لها إلا في الجنةعسى أن يكرمنا بفضلهحلمكنت ضيفا في دير بالجبل،و دخلت، عندما ذهب الجميع إلى الصلاة،قاعة للكتب. في بهجة نور المغربلمعت هادئة على الحائط بحروفعجيبة كعوب ألف مجلد من البرشمان.فتناولت ممتلئا شغفا بالعلم و سحراأول كتاب، كتجربة، و قرأت:"الخطوة الأخيرة إلى تربيع الدائرة"ففكرت سريعا أن آخذ هذا الكتاب معي!و كتابا آخر من الحجم الكبير مجلدا بالجلد المذهبعلى كعبه عنوان بالحروف الصغيرة:"كيف أكل آدم من الشجرة الأخرى"...من الشجرة الأخرى؟ من أية شجرة، شجرة الحياة؟و هكذا كان آدم خالداً؟ لم يكن من العبث إذن،على ما رأيت أني أتيت إلى هنا، و لمحتكتابا كبيرا كعبه و قطعه و حوافيهتشع في ظلال بألوان الطيف العديدة.كان عنوانه المرسوم باليد:"المعاني المقابلة للألوان و الأنغام،إثبات أن كل لون و انكساريقابله نوع من الأنغام يتبعه كإجابة له".لكم تلألأت لي مفعمة المعنىجوقات الألوان! و بدأت أحس،و كل لمسة لكتاب أكدت إحساسي:أن تلك مكتبة الفردوس.كل الأسئلة التي ألحت علي،و كل ضروب الظمأ التي حرقتني،لها هنا جواب، و كل جوع له خبزمن الفكر محفوظ هنا. لأنني كلما سألتمجلدا بنظرة سريعة، وجدت لكل مجلدعنوانا مكتوبا ينبئ بالكثير.كان لكل حاجة هنا شفاء، كانت هنا كل الثمار دانية القطف،كل الثمار التي يتمناها كل تلميذ،و التي يتلهف على الحصول عليها جريئا كل أستاذ.كان هناك المعنى، المعنى الأعمق الأصفى،لكل حكمة، و شعر و علم،كانت هناك القوة السحرية لكل سؤالو معها المفاتيح و المصطلحات، كانت هناكأرق روح الفكر محفوظة في كتب عظيمةسرية لم يسمع بها سامع.كانت هناكمفاتيح لكل نوعمن الأسئلة و الأسرارملكاً لمن تمنحها له منة الساعة السحرية.فوضعت و كانت يداي ترتعشان،على منضدة للقراءة أحد هذه المجلدات،و حللت رموز الكتابة المصورة السحرية،تماما كما يفعل الإنسان في الحلمكثيرا، ما لم يتعلمه أبدا، بسهولة اللعب و بنجاح.و بعد قليل كنت فرحانفي الطريق إلى أماكن فكرية ذات نجوم، داخلاً في الأبراج الفلكية،حيث تقابلت فيها كل ما رأتالأمم من وحي و من فكر متخذ صوراً،تراث خبرة عالية عمرها آلاف السنين،تقابلت منسجمة ارتباطات جديدة مجددة،يعتمد بعضها على بعضو يفر شابا من المعارف و الرموز و الابتداعات القديمةعلى الدوام سؤال جديد أسمى مما قبله.حتى أني و أنا أقرأ في دقائق أو ساعات،سرت مرة ثانية طريق الإنسانية كلها،و تلقيت من علومها القديمة و الحديثةكلها، في ذاتي معنها العميق.قرأت و رأيتأشكال الكتابة المصورةتنتظم اثنين اثنين، ثم ترجع،و تترتب لرقصة جماعية، ثم تتفرقو تنصب في تشكيلات جديدة،أشكال رمزية عديدة كررتها المرايا المتقابلة،تتخذ معاني جديدة لا تنتهي و لا تفرغ.و بينا أنا هكذا مبهور من المناظر،أبعد النظر عن الكتاب لإراحة العينين هنيهة،رأيت: أنني لم أكن هنا الضيف الوحيد.كان يقف في القاعة متجهاً إلى الكتب،رجل عجوز، ربما أمين المحفوظات،رأيته جادا، منهمكا في عمله،مشغولا عند الكتب، و لاح لي ذا أهمية،أهمية غريبة، أن أعرف نوع و معنىالعمل الكاد. فرأيت هذا الرجل الهرميتناول بيده المسنة الرقيقةكتابا، فقرأ ما كان على كعب الكتابمكتوبا، و نطق بفمه الشاحبالعنوان كأنه يتنسمه - عنواناً خلاباً،ضمان ساعات قراءة لذيذة!و مسحه رفيقا بإصبعه القادر على المسح،و كتب مبتسماً عنوانا جديداً، عنوانا آخر،عنوانا آخر مختلفا تماما، ثم راح يتجولو مد يده إلى كتاب آخر، تارة هنا، تارة هناك،فيمسح عنوانه، و يكتب عنوانا آخر.فنظرت إليه حيران وقتا طويلا و عدت.لما تمنع عقلي على الفهم،إلى الكتاب الذي قرأت فيهسطورا قليلة. لكني لم أجدسلاسل الصور التي نعمت بها لتوي،و انفصل عالم الرموز و لاح كأنهيفر مني، و لم أكن قد جلت به إلا قليلا،و كان يغص بمعنى العالم.ترنّح و دار و لاح كأن السحاب يغطيه،و ينساب بعيدا دون أن يخلف وراءه شيئاإلا بريقا رماديا على برشمان فارغ.و على كتفي أحسست يدافرفعت بصري، فإذا الشيخ المجد يقف بجانبيفنهضت. و تناولت مبتسماكتابي، فتملكتني رعدةمثل الارتعاش، و انزلق إصبعهكالاسفنج عليه. و على الجلد الفارغكتب عناوين جديدة، و أسئلة و وعودا جديدة،كتب أحدث انعكاسات لأقدم الأسئلةو ريشته تفصل الحروف تفصيلا.ثم أخذ معه صامتا الكتاب و الريشة... 0
1162242506	This book is full of ideas. The main part of the book is a biography of the main character Joseph Knecht. It is then followed by a dozen poems and three short stories, "the lives". These short stories at the end are definitely my favourite part of the novel. All that is lacking in terms of passion in the first part is present in these three short stories at the end, and they present all the same themes.The Glass Bead Game itself, as far as I can tell, seems to be something like abstract mathematics. It seems to embody a symbolic representation of all knowledge and manipulation of those symbols. It’s a unifying design which shows the connections and the unity between all branches of knowledge and arts. Or it is like music as it is an aesthetic composition of individual symbols.Castalian order is a highly formalised, monastic order where the mind and scholarly traditions are enshrined. It place’s importance on hierarchy, structure and tradition. It’s an almost platonic kind of communism with its dispassionate monasticism and elite caste. It lacks anything sensual, experiential and personal and so is incomplete.Whether in the idea of the game itself, or in the relationship between Castalia and the outside world, Or in Joseph Knechts relationships with others like plinio Designori, this novel is steeped in Hegelian dialectics. Man’s spiritual journey and the idea of contemplation and psychological liberation, the individual and the hierarchy, and the values of tradition are some of the major themes dealt with in the novel. The importance of a teacher-student/master-apprentice relationship is also highlighted.This was by no means an easy read and i took my time with it. But this is Hesse's masterpiece and is full of ideas.
6026822534	Catching up…I know.This isn’t my typical read. But…It was a donation to my Little Free Library Shed a while ago, and the book was pretty beaten up when I received it. It was water-worn, and obviously well-read. I also noticed that it was well-travelled, having once been a part of the New York Public Library system. Long withdrawn. And…It was Herman Hesse. Famous for Siddhartha and Steppenwolf. I learned that the book was originally published in German in 1943, and took him about a decade to write. It was supposed to be homage to his old age. It also won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1946.The bulk of the novel is presented as a chronicle to the future, written by a historian in the year 2400, with the order to maintain those values considered worth preserving after the chaos of the 20th century wars. Yet…This future world is also a world of the past. We are in tiny provincial towns, and Benedictine monasteries. And…This is where we meet Hesse’s hero, Josef Knecht, an exalted exponent – the Magister Ludi, highest servant of the Glass Bead Game. (Hence: the title of the book.) The game is conceived as a ceremony both mystical and rational – almost like chess, but more intricate. And thus…This game illustrates how the most varied aspects of nature and human experience can become part of a universal harmony. (Such as: Music, mathematics, scientific law.)In opposition, the religious orders devote themselves to an active involvement in human time and suffering. This will no doubt affect our main character. And…Much will be gained from readers in watching his decisions. There is a lyrical quality to Hesse’s novel and stories. It is obvious that his stories ask readers to question accepted values, to rebel against the system, and to challenge conventional “reality” at a time in which he lived. So…Does this make us want to do this now, too? Probably so. Which makes his writing, possibly more relevant, even now. He appears to speak a simple language accenting the search for salvation, most likely what contributed to his success as a writer. Are we not in those times again, seeking salvation in some form?I once read someone describe Hesse in the following way…“His works usually explore an individual’s search for identity and a spiritual quest outside society. These aspects help enhance the reader’s perspective while reading his written pieces.” Theodore Ziolkowski who wrote the forward (September 1989) to this edition shared…“…(this book) offers the American reader the opportunity, …to dare to laugh. If parody alone can adequately render the reality of our times, only irony offers us the freedom and detachment that are the essential conditions of responsible analysis and action.”To be honest…This was not an easy read. Plan on giving oneself adequate time to travel through his words. And…In paperback, it was 558 pages worth.
16845869	I was disappointed when I re-read this book. I remembered it as very moving and very significant. Upon re-reading I found it tedious and preachy. Hesse is trying to write a new kind of novel, one based on ideas instead of conflict. He succeeds, but the end product is boring. I also was bothered by the assumption that the life of the mind was open only to men -- women are somehow not qualified to share the glorious world of ideas. Hrmph.
2665977348	„Stiklo karoliukų žaidimas“ – tai knyga, kurią pavyko perskaityti iš antro karto. Pirmasis buvo prieš kokius gerus dešimt metų ir tai buvo pirmas kartas, kai numečiau knygą, nes nesupratau išvis kas ten vyksta ir kaip tai galima skaityti. Šį kartą nusprendžiau taip lengvai nepasiduoti, o kai visi pradėjo komentuoti, kad jiems nepavyko perskaityti... na tada pasakiau sau, kad privalau. Turiu pripažinti, kad sunkiausias knygoje pats pirmasis skyrelis. Jis tarsi filtras – reikia maksimalaus susikaupimo ir atidos, kad jį skaityti ne mechaniškai, o suprantant apie ką eina kalba. O toliau – lengviau. Aišku, tai ne ta knyga, apie kurią sakysite, kad labai lengvai susiskaito, per puslapius tiesiog skrieju. Ne, ne. Bus sakinių, kuriuos skaitysite du, tris, o gal net keturis kartus. Bet tame ir grožis. Šios knygos skaitymas savotiška meditacija, tačiau su labai teigiamomis pasekmėmis ir penu dvasiai.Apie ką šis Hesse kūrinys? Siužetas nėra super sudėtingas. Veiksmas, kiek jo yra, vyksta XXIIa., tačiau iš esmės laikmečio tikslas buvo ne pririšti knygos prie kažkokių buitinių detalių, o susikoncentruoti į svarbesnius dalykus. Pagrindis knygos herojus Jozefas Knechtas nuo tobulosios Kastalijos valstybės našlaičio užauga iki stiklo karoliukų žaidimo magistro. Šioje valstybėje visas asmens įsipareigojimas yra lavinti save, mėgautis menu, dvasiniais dalykais. Visa kas skirta pasauliu, visi fiziniai malonumai, alkoholis, yra svetima Kastalijai. Ši valstybė skirta aukštesniemas dalykams. Aukščiausia Kastalijos meno ir dvasios raiškos priemonė - stiklo karoliukų žaidimas.Dėmesio centras knygoje vis tik priklauso vyksmui, o ne veiksmui. Knygoje iškeliama daugybė filosofinių temų: būties dualizmas, meno ir mokslo svarba, dvasinio ir materialaus pasaulio priešprieša, istorijos kaip mokslo svarba, žmogaus pašaukimas ir t.t. Knyga tokia plati ir gili, kad, net neabejoju, jog skaitant po metų ar kelių joje vis atrasčiau kažką naujo, o ir faktas, kad už ją autoriui buvo įteikta Nobelio premija iškalbingas.Ši knyga klasika. Ji nėra fast food‘as jūsų smegenims. Tai gurmaniškas patiekalas, kuriuo reikės mėgautis lėtai, pajaučiant kiekvieną jos skonio pustonį. Tai knyga, kurios skaitymas tarsi gili meditacija, kada visas pasaulis išnyksta. Ši knyga – tai jūsų dvasios maistas. Prisipažinsiu, kad neturiu iliuzijos, jog ją supratau iki galo, bet tuo ji žavi ir tuo ji privers mane skaityti dar kartą.
489642753	I've just relocated this book to my "top-favo" books and I don't have many in there. Looking at this book briefly, I need to write a review (at some stage) on this wonderfully written book.
126073939	This book was a really incredible meditation on accomplishment, ambition, finding peace and the breach between intellectuals and reality. Hesse creates a reality in which an intellectual elite has created an entire society that lives above and beyond the rest of the world playing an incredibly esoteric game that seeks to connect all knowledge as a series of symbols. There were a number of things that struck me in this world. First of all, the connections to modern science, with its own increasingly abstracted symbology, are staggering. We are actually creating worlds that are removed from reality. Years of study are necessary to participate and understand what is going on in science and while that isn't necessarily a bad thing, there is cause for concern that maybe we aren't doing a good job of bridging the divide between science and the layman. Over time this breach could become a real problem. Moreover, I see this breach as a logical extension of the increased specialization that virtually every career requires nowadays. How long before a large number of individual intellectual empires crop up? Will we stop being able to communicate altogether?I was also fascinated by Hesse's exploration of ambition/balance. I think he really fleshes this concept out in the posthumous writings of Joseph Knecht at the end of the book. At any rate, it's a problem I grapple with all the time. There is a huge desire to find meaning in life through accomplishment, but this desire only opens us up to greater strivings to find that elusive peace of mind. I think we should be ambitious, but I think it is important to strike a balance and find a way to be happy with what we have already accomplished and where we are in life.
6033067157	Citind primul capitol al acestui roman mi-am zis că această carte mă depășește. Nu aș vrea să zic că începutul e aberant sau mai știu eu ce calificative denigratoare să-i atribui, însă mă pierdeam printre rânduri de nenumărate ori.Lucrurile s-au schimbat atunci când am trecut la biografia lui Josef Knecht, care defapt reprezintă conținutul de bază al romanului. Viața sa începând cu copilăria, școala de elită, iar mai apoi membrul al ordinului și magister ludi au fost părți pe înțelesul meu.Așadar vin cu un sfat către cei care au început cartea și au abandonat-o după primele pagini atunci când s-au pierdut printre descrierile și filozofările legate de jocul cu mărgele de sticlă. Nu renunțați la această carte atât de devreme, căci adevăratul fir al acțiunii începe abia odată cu biografia lui Knecht.Trebuie să recunosc că deși îi înțeleg măreția și valoarea literară, nu pot aprecia cartea pe deplin așa cum simt că pe-alocuri pur și simplu a fost prea mult pentru mine. Cred că iubitorii de filozofie și cei mai inițiați decât mine vor fi în stare să aprecieze cartea la justa ei valoare. Totuși “Lupul de stepă” a fost mai pe placul meu.“Nu trebuie nicidecum să năzuiești către o învățătură desăvârșită, prietene, ci către propria ta desăvârșire. Dumnezeirea se află în tine însuți, nu în noțiuni și în cărți.”“Jocul cu mărgele de sticlă” de Hermann Hesse
3135494	While Hesse's masterpiece has the same theme as Siddhartha, it's not the same short, simple work as that classic. Magister Ludi's inventive setting and method takes the basically unchanged storyline (gifted young man progressing, achieving, and finally discovering the true meaning of life), and creates a sort of historical biography of the protagonist. One of the fun aspects of this work is The Glass Bead Game: he introduces an idea of representing ideas, mathematics, literature -- all knowledge and philosophy -- as "glass beads," or symbols. The academic society he builds is dedicated to the art of arranging these symbols in a sort of game. Hesse doesn't go into depth here: he's simply uses this game as a device to show 1) an elite society dedicated to this game, and 2) a way to represent how devotion to studying a worthy cause is not in and of itself the meaning of life. One of my favorite elements is the section of poems and short stories that were written by the main character, and included in this "biography." The short poem "Stages" is an excellent summary of all Hesse’s works, and has become a sort of theme for my life.
1658344467	أنهيت الآن رواية "لعبة الكريات الزجاجية" والتي ملأت عليّ وقتي مدّة أسبوع واستحوذت على تفكِيري استحواذا كاملا، كان بإمكاني أن أنهيها في ثلاثة أيام ولكنّها ليست من نوع الرّوايات التّي تُقرأ على نَفَسٍ واحد.طِيلة تلك الأيّام قدحت في رأسي أفكار عديدة وتأمّلات مُختلفة يستحيل التّعبير عنها بالكلمات وهي من النّوع الخاص جِدّا.هذه الرّواية أرتني ذاك المُستوى العالي الذّي يمكن لإبداع الإنسان ان يصِله، ولكنّه لا يَتأتّى بالموهِبة فقط، فهو لا يُعطى إلاّ لمن شحذتهُم التّجارب وصقلتهُم الحياة وأذاقتهم الطّعمين الحلو اللّذيذ والمُرّ العلقم.ولذلك جاءت هذه الرّواية بِحكمة الشّيوخ الجليلة وبِصبرهم الطّويل، وهي تطلب من قارئها أن يتحلّى بِذاك الصّبر وأن يتعلّم التّأمل العميق الذّي عادةً لا يتناسب مع اندِفاع الشّباب.كانت رواية طويلة ملِيئة بالتّفاصيل ولكن كُلّ تفصِيل فيها كان ذا دلالةٍ عميقة ولا يُمكن بأيّ شكلٍ من الأشكال تجاوُزه.السّبب الذّي دفعني لقراءة هذه الرّواية هو أن "علي عزّت بيجوفيتش" أشار إليها في كتابه -هُروبي إلى الحُريّة- لذلك وضعتُها على قائمتي، في الحقيقة كُنت قد نسيت ما قاله عنها، وحين كنت في بدايتي مع الرّواية وأحسست بأنّها قد ملأت عليّ نفسي وعبّرت عنّي بشكلٍ غريب، عُدت لأقرأ ما كتبه فوجدت بأنّه قال: (إنّها نصّ مُعقّد، حتّى إنّ مشاعر اجتاحتني بأنّها غابة كثِيفة لا أستطيع عُبورها إلا بصعوبة بالغة، إنّها إحدى أفضل الكتب التّي قرأتها، وطبعًا إحدى الكتب الأقرب إلى أفكاري ومشاكلي)-رُبما هذا هو شعور أيّ شخص يقرأها-ومن قرأ كتاب "الإسلام بين الشّرق والغرب" سيرى تأثير هذه الرّواية في فكر علي عزت بيجوفيتش بشكلٍ واضح وجلِيّ.مِن عجائب ما حصل لِي، هو أنّي قبل أن أبدأ بالرّواية كنت قد قرأ الفصل الذّي يتحدّث عن مفهُوم "نهاية التّاريخ" وما يتعلّق به في كتاب (العلمانية والحداثة والعولمة) لعبد الوهاب المسيري رحمه الله، فجاءت هذه الرّواية لتُعطي مثالا عن اليوتيوبيا (المدينة الفاضلة) والوُصول إلى نهاية التّاريخ في بُقعة على الارض وتُبيّن رفض الإنسان لها فهي في الأخير تنتهي بعودة الإنسان الحقيقي بكلّ تناقُضاتِه واستِمرار عجلة التّاريخ.هذه النّقطة الأخيرة تحتاج إلى شرح، سأدعه لوقتٍ آخر إن شاء الله.
2550461687	If I were to become a book as do the resisters in Fahrenheit 451, this book would be me. Joseph Knecht, the Music Master, Father Jacobus, the Pedagogic Province of Castalia, the harmonious integration of art, music, science and all areas of study - they would be all mine. I truly love this book, and reread it every few years. I can also pick it up anywhere and dive in for a few pages or chapters anytime, and be refreshed in spirit.
482146340	a disappointment that demands reflection...
2328077341	Su Hesės stiklo karoliukais nesėkmingai bandžiau pažindintis paskutiniais mokyklos metais - pritrūkau kantrybės tada. Po penkiolikos metų su knyga susigyvenau visai kitaip - be noro bėgti puslapiais, ramiai, vis pamedituojant po įveikto skyriaus. Hesė kažką turi, ko kiti ne. Ta begalinė kūrinio ramybė lėtai besrūvanti į skaitytojo sąmonę paperka. Kai kuriais aspektais "Stiklo karoliukų žaidimas" priminė V. Mykolaičio-Putino "Altorių šešėly": pagrindinio herojaus drama ir vidų draskančiais išgyvenimais, askeze, dvasinio ir išorinio pasaulio supriešinimu. Puiki knyga, kai norisi gilesnio ir lėtesnio skaitymo, pamąstymų, filosofijos.
36669427	It has been so many years that I read this that I really should revisit it. I recall it as a very difficult book that required effort to trudge through many very slow sections in order to glean the fascinating underlying conceit.There are huge portions of the book I barely recall, including the personal travails of the narrator and the culture of the boardinghouses for the children being raised to play the Game. What I recall best is the Game itself.Agreeing with Wikipedia, I recall the Game as one whose exact nature remains elusive and whose devotees occupy a special school within Castalia known as Waldzell. The rules of the game are only alluded to, and are so sophisticated that they are not easy to imagine. Playing the game well requires years of hard study of music, mathematics, and cultural history. Essentially the game is an abstract synthesis of all arts and scholarship. It proceeds by players making deep connections between seemingly unrelated topics. Devoting one's life to seeking subtle connections within all knowledge would probably seem like hell to most; it comes close to heaven for me.That aside, I think the Game should also be of interest to people examining how the internet is altering the would today. We've recently seen a minor avalanche of essays and books on these multifaceted changes. Some bemoan how our individual and collective attention spans are withering, how the web's anarchic nature subverts objectivity for subjectivity, or how it is causing the collapse of intellectual property rights. Others applaud some of these same changes and point to others, such as the lower cost of entry into the world of information exchange, once the costs of publishing and distribution are diminished. A good article that revisits many of these themes is the New York Times essay Texts Without Context. Towards the end of the essay (and, tellingly, hinted at in the URL), the author discusses the emergence of mash ups. The final paragraphs quote Jaron Lanier, who is dismissive of the phenomena: To Mr. Lanier, however, the prevalence of mash-ups in today’s culture is a sign of “nostalgic malaise.” “Online culture,” he writes, “is dominated by trivial mash-ups of the culture that existed before the onset of mash-ups, and by fandom responding to the dwindling outposts of centralized mass media. It is a culture of reaction without action.”He points out that much of the chatter online today is actually “driven by fan responses to expression that was originally created within the sphere of old media,” which many digerati mock as old-fashioned and passé, and which is now being destroyed by the Internet. “Comments about TV shows, major movies, commercial music releases and video games must be responsible for almost as much bit traffic as porn,” Mr. Lanier writes. “There is certainly nothing wrong with that, but since the Web is killing the old media, we face a situation in which culture is effectively eating its own seed stock.” I disagree with his overall assessment in many ways (caveat: I haven't yet read Lanier's diatribe manifesto). The first and obvious response is that any new medium is immediately used to examine and explore previous media. That early films mined the treasures of written literature is obvious. Why should the internet be any different? That these derivatives simultaneously reach into multiple media is a fascinating innovation, not a sign of decline. A look back at how film and television evolved over decades tells us that it will be quite some time before the internet finds its own voice.Another response is that today's infantile mash-up might be the beginning of the Glass Bead Game itself. Obviously the internet means it will not have anything like the form Hesse envisioned, but that is a minor point. The ability of the internet to link disparate sources and forge a synthesis isn't new, but the ability to do so within a collaborative structure is.Consider the Broadway musical West Side Story. This mashed a Shakespearean tragedy with a story about New York gangs into a musical. In the Glass Bead Game, this would exist at a nexus of links back to several antecedents; among them would be Romeo and Juliet, foremost but not alone. In today's internet culture this would quickly breed numerous tributes and satires, almost all of which would be of trivial lasting important. But their persistence could allow later links to be made that are more subtle and ingenious. Perhaps someone would note that an ancient Persian poem had a similar theme to R&J, and that it was later set to music in a folk ballad. An academic might stumble over this and carefully examine the parallels between the Sondheim musical and the ballad.We can consider the potential that a network could have previously existed as analogous to something in the oral tradition, and the actuality of such a network within the Web as akin to being within the written tradition. This persistent connectivity is radically new: to switch metaphors, previously the informational constructs that make up our media existed in atomic form; mash-ups are the first of the molecules we have constructed of those atoms.The Glass Bead Game involves the exploration of the history and the discovery of ever more complex and intriguing molecules. And explicitly documenting these molecules instantiates them as new "beads" within the game.­
6267313822	Sehr wuchtiges Buch, bahnbrechend, disruptiv, ich würde fast sagen auch ein Meilenstein und Wegbereiter für so manche SciFi Idee wie Star Wars
2071161008	=========отговорността, тази обгърнатост от общото и по-висшето, от която някои млади могат да изглеждат стари, а някои стари — млади, това е, което подкрепя човека и едновременно му ограбва свободата като колчето, към което привързват младата фиданка, то отнема невинността, докато въпреки всичко изисква една все по-ясна чистота.==========Абстракциите са пленителни, но аз съм убеден, че човек трябва да има въздух и хляб.==========Няма — така се бе изразил веднъж той — възвишен и благороден живот, без да се познават дяволът и демоните и без постоянна борба срещу тях.==========Естествено два народа и два езика никога не ще бъдат толкова разбираеми един за друг и не ще се доверяват тъй сърдечно, както двама души, които принадлежат към една и съща нация и език.==========Естествено два народа и два езика никога не ще бъдат толкова разбираеми един за друг и не ще се доверяват тъй сърдечно, както двама души, които принадлежат към една и съща нация и език.==========Естествено два народа и два езика никога не ще бъдат толкова разбираеми един за друг и не ще се доверяват тъй сърдечно, както двама души, които принадлежат към една и съща нация и език. Но това не е причина да се откажем от разбирателство и откровение.=========Естествено два народа и два езика никога не ще бъдат толкова разбираеми един за друг и не ще се доверяват тъй сърдечно, както двама души, които принадлежат към една и съща нация и език. Но това не е причина да се откажем от разбирателство и откровение. И между сънародници и говорещи един език се издигат стени, които пречат за откровеното споделяне и за пълното взаимно разбирателство: прегради на образование, възпитание, дарба, индивидуалност.==========Естествено два народа и два езика никога не ще бъдат толкова разбираеми един за друг и не ще се доверяват тъй сърдечно, както двама души, които принадлежат към една и съща нация и език. Но това не е причина да се откажем от разбирателство и откровение. И между сънародници и говорещи един език се издигат стени, които пречат за откровеното споделяне и за пълното взаимно разбирателство: прегради на образование, възпитание, дарба, индивидуалност. Оправдано е да се твърди, че поначало на земята всеки човек би могъл да разкрие душата си пред всеки друг, но също и да се твърди, че на света изобщо няма двама души, между които да е възможно истинско, безкрайно дълбоко откровение и разбирателство — първото е толкова вярно, колкото и второто.==========Естествено два народа и два езика никога не ще бъдат толкова разбираеми един за друг и не ще се доверяват тъй сърдечно, както двама души, които принадлежат към една и съща нация и език. Но това не е причина да се откажем от разбирателство и откровение. И между сънародници и говорещи един език се издигат стени, които пречат за откровеното споделяне и за пълното взаимно разбирателство: прегради на образование, възпитание, дарба, индивидуалност. Оправдано е да се твърди, че поначало на земята всеки човек би могъл да разкрие душата си пред всеки друг, но също и да се твърди, че на света изобщо няма двама души, между които да е възможно истинско, безкрайно дълбоко откровение и разбирателство — първото е толкова вярно, колкото и второто.==========защото без постоянно упражнение и непрекъснато общуване с равностойни и дори с превъзхождащи го партньори човек нищо не може да научи, самотната игра успява да замести истинската най-многото така, както един монолог — действителен==========защото без постоянно упражнение и непрекъснато общуване с равностойни и дори с превъзхождащи го партньори човек нищо не може да научи, самотната игра успява да замести истинската най-многото така, както един монолог — действителен==========защото без постоянно упражнение и непрекъснато общуване с равностойни и дори с превъзхождащи го партньори човек нищо не може да научи, самотната игра успява да замести истинската най-многото така, както един монолог — действителен и откровен разговор.==========Духът е благотворен и благороден само когато е подчинен на истината; щом й измени, щом се откаже от страхопочитанието пред нея, стане ли продажен, огъва ли се за нечия угода, вече понася в себе си като възможно дяволското, което е много по-лошо от първичното, инстинктивно животинското, което винаги и въпреки всичко запазва нещо от невинността на природата.==========Така неговият път бе вървял в кръг или по елипса, или спирала, може би както винаги — само не праволинейно, защото правата линия явно принадлежи единствено на геометрията, не на природата и на живота.==========Струваше му се, че при това „пробуждане“ въпросът не е до истина и познание, а до действителността и нейното изживяване и съществуване. С „пробуждането“ не проникваше по-близко до сърцевината на нещата, до истината в тях, човек обхващаше, развиваше, изстрадваше само отношението на собственото си „аз“ към моментното положение на тези неща.==========Но по време на учението си при отец Якобус бях направил откритието, че съм не само касталиец, а и човек, че светът, целият свят има отношение и към мене и също, че ме засяга изискването да живея с него.==========По-силно, отколкото по време на вчерашното пътуване, той усещаше мощта, хладината и достолепната загадъчност на високопланинския свят, който не посреща човека, не го кани, а само едва го търпи.=========Стигнал до заключението, че хората на духа предизвикват у другите едно странно засягане и леко отвращение, че наистина ги ценят само отдалеч и се възползват от тях единствено в случай на беда, но никак не ги обичат, не ги приемат като себеравни, а нещо повече, избягват ги.==========Кнехт разбрал и това, че усвоените, предавани от поколения или свободно измислените вълшебни думи и магически заклинания се приемат от болни или нещастни много по-охотно, отколкото разумният съвет; че човекът предпочита да се нагърби с несгодата и външното покаяние, отколкото да се промени вътрешно или само да опита; че той по-лесно вярва на магията, отколкото на разума, по-лесно на заклинанието, отколкото на опита; все неща, които оттогава в течение на няколко хилядолетия вероятно не са се променили толкова много, както твърдят някои исторически книги.==========духът, духът, който е без начало, но в зародиш вече съдържа всяко и всичко, на което някога по-късно ще даде живот.==========Маро принадлежал към оня тип ученици, към много надарените, които въпреки даровитостта си са неприятни и дотегливи за учителите от всички времена, защото при тях талантът не е органична сила, вкоренена и растяща от дълбочина, не е нежен, облагородяващ дихателен орган на една добра натура, жизнена кръв и жизнен характер, а като че ли нещо довеяно от вятъра, случайно, дори заграбено или откраднато. Един ученик с незначителен характер, но с голям ум или блестяща фантазия неизбежно поставя учителя си в трудно положение: той трябва да му предаде унаследените познания и методи и да му създаде умение за сътрудничество в духовния живот — при това да чувства, че неговият истински върховен дълг е да пази науките и изкуствата от наплива на само надарените; защото учителят не бива да служи на ученика, а двамата на духа. По тази причина учителите изпитват ужас и известен страх пред някои блестящи таланти; всеки такъв ученик опорочава целия смисъл и същност на обучението. Всяко насърчаване на ученик, способен само да блести, но не и да служи, всъщност означава ощетяване на службата, един вид предателство спрямо духа. В историята на някои народи познаваме периоди, когато дълбоките смутове в духовния ред са възниквали тъкмо поради наплива на само надарени в ръководствата на общините, училищата и академиите, на държавата, когато всички длъжности заемали високоталантливи хора, но те до един искали да управляват, без да могат да служат. Често действително е много трудно да се открие навреме този вид надареност, преди още да е овладяла основите на една духовна професия, и с необходимата строгост да бъде насочена по пътя на занятие, несвързано с духовното.
2346018442	Una novela de esencia filosófica en la que Knecht, el protagonista, se sublima a sí mismo peldaño a peldaño en la escalera de la vida.
5735690703	4.5 Această carte mi-a plăcut mai mult față de alte scrieri ale lui Hesse, precum ,,Narcis și Gură-de-Aur” și ,,Lupul de stepă”. Temele principale ale întregii opere a artistului și gânditorului Hermann Hesse sunt divergența dintre ideal și realitate, relația dintre individ și societate, antagonismul dintre pornirile serafice si cele diabolice ale sufletului omenesc. În prefață, Ion Roman consideră că Hesse și-a propus să scrie „o biografie pură, o biografie spirituală”. Printre altele, romanul dezbate pe seama vieții orientate spre exterior comparată cu viața orientată spre interior și căutarea adevărului și a frumuseții. ,,Jocul cu mărgele de sticlă” este ca un fel de teatru magic, un joc intelectual care cuprinde toate domeniile majore de învățare. ,,Regulile acestui joc al jocurilor se învaţă numai pe calea obişnuită, prescrisă, care cere câţiva ani, şi nimeni dintre iniţiaţi nu ar putea avea vreun interes să facă aceste reguli ale jocului mai uşor de învăţat. Aceste reguli, limbajul semnelor şi gramatica jocului reprezintă un fel de limbaj secret foarte perfecţionat, la care participă mai multe discipline ştiinţifice şi ramuri ale artei, mai ales însă matematica şi muzica (respectiv, ştiinţa muzicii), şi care este în măsură să exprime şi să pună în relaţii reciproce conţinutul şi rezultatele celor mai multe ştiinţe. Jocul cu mărgele de sticlă este, aşadar, un joc care sintetizează toate conţinuturile şi valorile culturii noastre, se joacă cu ele, cam cum trebuie să se fi jucat cu vopselele de pe paleta sa un pictor din perioadele de înflorire a artelor. Tot ceea ce a produs umanitatea ca ştiinţă, gândire înaltă şi opere de artă în epocile ei creatoare, tot ceea ce perioadele ulterioare de studiu savant au exprimat în concepte şi au transformat în tezaur intelectual, tot acest material uriaş de valori spirituale este adus în joc de jucătorul cu mărgele de sticlă, aşa cum o orgă e făcută să cânte de către organist, iar această orgă este de o perfecţiune aproape de neconceput, clapele şi pedalele ei ating întregul cosmos spiritual, registrele ei sunt aproape nenumărate, astfel încât, teoretic, cu acest instrument poate fi reprodus în joc întregul conţinut spiritual al lumii. (…) Căci, ca orice idee mare, jocul acesta nu are propriu-zis un început, ci, ca idee, a existat întotdeauna. (…) Ideea jocului este veșnică și ea a existat și s-a manifestat întotdeauna, cu mult înainte de realizarea ei în practică”. ,,Fiecare dintre noi nu e decât un om, o experiență, o ființă aflată în drum spre ceva. Dar trebuie să se afle în drum spre desăvârșire, să năzuiască spre centru, nu spre periferie. Ține minte: poți fi logician sau gramatic pur și totuși plin de fantezie și cu dragoste de muzică. Poți fi muzician sau jucător cu mărgele de sticlă și totuși plin de devotament față de norme și ordine”. ,,Şi în timp ce Knecht privea acest carusel oniric, şi absurd, şi plin de înţelesuri, el însuşi se simţea identic în vis când cu bătrânul, când cu băiatul, era când cel ce venea, când veneratul, când conducătorul, când cel aflat sub ascultare, iar în cursul acestei schimbări labile veni o clipă când fu amândoi, în acelaşi timp maestrul şi micul discipol, ba mai mult, chiar se afla mai presus decât amândoi, era organizatorul, născocitorul, conducătorul şi spectatorul caruselului, al întrecerii acesteia dintre bătrâneţe şi tinereţe, care se desfăşura în cerc, fără victoria unuia sau a altuia, şi pe care, cu sentimente schimbătoare, acum o încetinea, acum o pornea în cea mai mare iuţeală. Din acest studiu luă fiinţă o nouă imagine, mai mult simbolică decât vis, mai mult înţelegere decât tablou, anume imaginea sau mai curând înţelegerea faptului că această alergare în circuit, plină de sens şi absurdă totodată, a maestrului şi a discipolului, această cursă a înţelepciunii după tinereţe, a tinereţii după înţelepciune, acest joc nesfârşit, înaripat era simbolul Castaliei, era jocul vieţii în genere, care curge la nesfârşit, dedublată în bătrâneţe şi tinereţe, în zi şi noapte”.
3498269290	This is the last novel by Hermann Hesse, it won Retro-Hugo for the best novel of 1943 in 2019. While it is not a ‘true’ SF, more a classic utopia, set in (as the author suggested) in the 23rd century. I read is as a part of monthly reading for August 2020 at Hugo & Nebula Awards: Best Novels group. I used 1978 Ukrainian translation of the text.This is a classic bildungsroman i.e. a literary genre that focuses on the psychological and moral growth of the protagonist from youth to adulthood (coming of age), in which character change is important. In this case it is a story of Joseph Knecht (from German ‘servant’), who for his talents is taken to the pedagogical province of Castilia (from Ancient Greek: Κασταλία, in Greek mythology, was a naiad-nymph, a daughter of Achelous who inhabited the Castalian spring in Delphi that could inspire the genius of poetry to those who drank her waters or listened to their quiet sound). One of the main things that Castilians do is play the Glass Bead Game.The Glass Bead Game is based on the idea that everything is linked to everything, like a music melody can be represented with math, which in turn can be linked to astronomy. Players start with one item and show how it is linked to everything else. From one hand, the players know and study a great deal, on the other they assume that nothing new can be created, so they fawn about old, but add nothing new. The novel is written as a “wall of text” with paragraphs sometimes several pages long. I’d greatly prefer it cut at least twofold, maybe even more. Added to the novel there are writings of Knecht himself (three novellas and poetry), which are very good, better than the novel itself. The poetry was translated by famous Ukrainian poetess Ліна Костенко.
88123904	This is Harry Potter without its female characters, its magic and magicians. Here we have Castalia, a "province" [more like the seminaries of today] where it population of masters and students devote themselves to studies, or to the "things of the mind". Outside of Castalia is the practical world [the world which most of us live in] devoted to knowledge not for its own sake, but knowledge to better the physical aspects of living.In Harry Potter, there's the battle between the good and bad magicians. Here, the struggle mostly happens between ideas and within oneself. Castalia is known for its Glass Bead Game. How this game is played, you'll never know even if you read the book a hundred times. It is similar to chess only because it involves thinking and the games can be recorded and admired. But it is so unlike chess because it takes so very long to finish [10 days to two weeks] and a game would involve meditation. The game is supposed to be a combination of music and other arts and sciences. The Magister Ludi ["Master of the Game"] heads Castalia [like the Vatican has a Pope].The main protagonist here is Joseph Knecht, a brilliant man who grew up and studied in Castalia and later bacame its Magister Ludi. I would like to spoil your fun of reading this by saying here that in the end Joseph Knecht resigned as Magister Ludi and then drowned. But before this, the book is a long constant debate of the relevance, importance, meaning of, on the one hand, Castalia [with its "things of the mind"] vis-a-vis [or in contrast with), the outside world, with its practical sciences, its politics, its wars.By the way, the author Hermann Hesse was born in 1877 and was brought up on a missionary household where it was assumed that he would study for the ministry. Then he had a religious crisis, left the seminary where he was staying, and attempted suicide.
1595903	This is my all-time favorite book. It combines two key themes for me: First, the role of the leader as a servant and second the idea of intellectual game-playing as a way to make meaning. His explorations and elaborations of those themes are perfect. I've read and enjoyed other books by Hesse, and I like the way he tells stories that span a person's entire life without missing the small details along the way. I think this is his masterpiece.
7314230896	Радше 4,5Читаючи не розумів своїх емоцій: від «ці всі розумні думки і так зрозумілі і я такий класний, бо вже прийшов до цих істин» до ступору і екзистенційної кризи. Окрім головної думки-ідеї, яка простежується ще з епіграфа, - поєднання непоєднуваного, симбіоз та взаємодія протиріч, тут, звісно, багато всього: місцями незрозумілого, а місцями по-геніальному простого. І мене якраз оці всі інші думки, аніж показово головна - відстороненість еліт, зачепили більшеМайстерність тут ще й в тому, що підходив до книги відсторонено, а може навіть і зверхньо (маючи певний емоційний та інтелектуальний багаж, який на свій вік вважав ледь не ідеальним), а Гессе по-вчительськи ткнув мене носом в життєву науку
5085575965	“Most of our teachers would say: We have devoted several centuries to inventing the Glass Bead Game as a universal language and method for expressing all intellectual concepts and all artistic values and reducing them to a common denominator”. p110“He hoped, he said, to arrange, and sum up all the knowledge of his time, symmetrically and synoptically, around a central idea. That is precisely what the Glass Bead Game does.” p154The Glass Bead Game is an astonishing book that is unlike anything I have ever read before. The book is authored by Nobel Prize winning German writer, Hermann Hesse, and the Glass Bead Game is my first foray into this incredible man’s works. It certainly won’t be my last. It’s not necessarily an easy read, yet at the same time it flows effortlessly. It’s not so much a story as such, but a biographical work of the life of Joseph Knecht, fictional in every sense yet firmly rooted in far reaching, deep diving concepts that transcend centuries. For me the book delved into themes around a thirst for knowledge, wisdom and the exercise of the Mind, a quest for knowing, the irrefutable necessity of being still and reflective, meditative and disciplined. There is an aspect of identity, belonging, separateness, existing alongside as opposed to existing with, and being versus doing. Permeating the narrative however, is the ever present friction between ‘knowing about’ and ‘knowing through doing’, … “this dichotomy in Knecht’s soul, or rather his ever-alternating polarity, as the central feature of his nature, and to affirm it as such”. p249The novel revolves around the republic of Castalia, a remote kingdom that resembles some type of Utopia for elite highly academic males, with a strong sense of intellectual hierarchy and order. Students are selectively chosen from the broader lands within which the republic exists to attend elite schools, ascend through an ordered developmental and occupational pathway and ultimately to play what is known as the Glass Bead Game. Devotion to mathematics and music are recurrent themes and the game itself seems to revolve around these disciplines, as players peel back the layers of a range of concepts to highlight the true integrated nature of all knowledge. Inhabitants of Castalia seem to lead a blissful existence of being constantly in a state of expanding their minds, engaging in meditation, quite removed from the world and in fact, looking down on people in the world as somewhat inferior and caught up in all the issues that life brings.Josef Knecht is selected to be interviewed by the Music Master (Magister Musicae) from Castalia when he is young, and is thrust into this kingdom. There is no mention of his family and it seems that it is somehow a given that particular boys are destined for this life, almost monastic, where the mind and spirit can grow and expand away from the tyranny of daily reality, history and politics. This kingdom is sustained by the surrounding country and seems to be in the social fabric of life and culture. With an emphasis on feeding the mind and body through regular meditation and focused controlled breathing, Castalia really is like a cloistered convent or seminary where a total focus on the aims and goals of a singular life can be adopted.Josef rises through the ranks to Magister Ludi (master of the Glass Bead Game), yet always has this penchant for knowing the world, being in the world, somehow integrating the worlds. He is challenged and influenced and in fact seeks out others who will challenge him. Father Jacobus, fellow students Plinio Designori, Fritz Tegularius. The theme that resonates here for me is the integrating of two sides, two ways of thought, mind and truth… “Castalia remained the training ground and refuge for that small band of men whose lives were to be consecrated to Mind and to truth. Then why were these two worlds apparently unable to live in fraternal, harmony, parallel and intertwined; why couldn’t individual not cherish and unite both within himself?” P91There is so much in this book that I don’t really know where to stop. The themes are so deep and pervasive and as Hesse suggests, perhaps controlled breathing and meditation help to delve deeply into the themes to give them the justice they are due.The book finishes with Josef Knecht’s posthumous writings. These are provocative and reflective short stories. I was particularly taken with the final two. Again they felt monastic and spiritual in need of reflective thought and pondering.Hermann Hesse has written a masterpiece. 5 stars at least.
39794033	I must admit that I am having a hell of a time digesting this one. I think I will get the negative stuff over with so I can move on to the the more positive aspects of this book. I am a big Hesse fan (esp. Siddhartha, Steppenwolf, and Narcissus & Goldmund) and I really wanted to give this one four stars instead of three. What stopped me was how much of a slog it ended up being. I have no problem with long books (or movies for that matter) but there needs to be some sort of justification for it(what that might entail I dont exactly know, but hey, I know it when I see it). The Glass Bead Game just seemed long-winded and rambling in places. The section that treats Knecht's tenure as the Magister Ludi could have been scaled back by 100 pages and been just as effective in describing his growth and his progression towards an "awakening". This particular section of long-windedness also caused me to temporarily lose sight of the character of Joseph Knecht. I no longer felt like I was with him on his journey through Castalia and the life of the mind. Perhaps Hesse intended this disconnect in order to convey the feeling of isolation that came with Knecht's office. That would not have been so bad but I think because this book was written from the perspective of an unknown biographer it seemed to further isolate the reader from the character of Knecht to a degree that was, in my opinion, a little too far removed. Beyond the unnecessary length of this book and the odd form of narration, my only other gripe is that it was a little too lacking in the sensuality department. I realize that Castalia was a monastic community of sorts but how about a little temptation to make it interesting? The physical world as experienced by Knecht took a back seat to the world of the mind and this kind of made for some boring reading in places.
3440173018	Domėtis literatūra (tame tarpe ir Hesse kūryba – o jis to vertas) ir būti neskaičius šios knygos – šiek tiek gėda... Tad perskaičiau. Senokai, todėl vertinimas, manau, objektyvus: solidarizuojuosi su tais, kurie vertina 4, bet puikiai suprantu ir tuos skaitytojus, kurie vertina 3...
181056782	Hmmmm. This book was ponderously interesting. A world is created but ever so lightly as to leave much to the readers imagination. The glass bead game (unless I missed something) never seems to be played in epic battle proportions as described in this book, its never openly laid out other than just the basic idea. There is no real description of the differences that make up the world outside of what the main character is experiencing. Does that make sense? Its like you get this massive narrative about this particular characters life that seems to have some sort of basic interesting plot line and yet the execution of that plot is so bizarre as to render it almost a side note. Its almost as if the plot isn't the point. Its the point behind the point. Get it? No its like uhhhhh. There is something else going on here. I think the author is trying to make statements about art and culture. He is makings statements about being on the outside of something you love and that is integrally part of yourself. Making a statement about manipulation? I don't honestly know. But the plot is obviously only hiding something and that much seems obvious, though it isn't "hit you in the face" obvious enough for the number of pages that went into the venture to actually discern if he is hiding one thing or many. I can see the relations to Siddhartha. I loved that and the ending with Ramma I thought was really well conceived although the entirety of the post humorous writings really threw me for a loop. I don't know it was like it had this epically amazing idea. The game itself is a beautiful and engaging idea, the world even is engaging but he focused nothing on it. Like I said it wasn't the point. The focus continually went back to the character. Perhaps "self" is the point? If someone felt like they really got this book I would love a discussion. Write me a message. The whole book felt like grasping to me. Maybe that was the point! Oh gosh, there are too many things this book could mean, maybe it is everything. Maybe this book contains the answers to the meaning of existence and I blew the exam.
69818777	The Glass Bead Game is the least of all of the works by Hesse that I have have read. Set next to many of his other works, particularly Narcissus and Goldmund, it is atrocious. Hermann Hesse is certainly monomaniacal in his contemplations of human nature but the GBG is entirely recycled material presented with all the finesse of an expository sledgehammer. Rarely does something transpire that it's not mentioned three or four times in consecutive paragraphs. (Don't believe it? How many times is the fact that Joseph postpones his game instruction mentioned in the second chapter?)The novel takes place in some distant future that is in every way early nineteenth century bucolic Germany. In this utopia, a sexless (and nearly womanless) and deathly dull world of abstract intellectual development, mastering intellectual abstractions is the highest calling for humanity. That Knecht comes to realize that Castalia is too isolated from the rest of unworthy, simple-minded humanity hardly gives the impression that Hesse hadn't settled on this as his ideal world... a cop out from his earlier work. (What Dionysian impulses?)Missing are the vivid portrayals and homoerotic tensions that propelled his novels beyond Platonic dialogues and into personal journeys. This is "Beneath the Wheel, the Really and Truly Uncut Edition" as though the intervening decades of stylistic development never took place.
1687602692	بدءا بقراءة العنوان مرورا بتتبابع الاحداث سوف تتساءل ، ما هي لعبة الكريات الزجاجية ؟ و ماذا تعني ! ، حسنا لا تنتظر الإجابة فليس ثمة تفاصيل عنها ، و على الرغم ما صرح به الماجستر كنشت من أنها اعلى من الدين ، الفلسفة وحتى العادة وعلى ما هي محملة به من فكر و موسيقى و تربية إلا أنك ستعلم بأنها شئ يمكن إستبداله بصياغة أخرى ، ربما لأنه يوتوبيالحوارت والمقاطع الطويلة السرد الفاتر ، يبين لك أن الهم الأساسي الفكرة ، و مع أن الرواية أخذت طابع نقل الخبر في سيرة ما ، إلا أن السارد كان له القدرة على سبر دقائق الشعور لدى الشخوص ، وهذا لعمري يحيرتحمل الرواية الكثير من المعاني ، شئ لا يمكن حصره إلا بنسخ أغلب الحوارات ، فبين البحث عن المعنى و السخرية من عصور أخرى و بين جدل الفكر والواقع و تداخلات كل ذلك بالسياسة والتاريخ ، تنمو روح وذات هنا هي شخصية الماجستر ، أبرز ما يمكن القول عنها أنها مؤثرة ، حتى في القراء على تعدد المعاني المحمولة في الرواية الا أن ما مسني فيها هو تأثير الآخر ، كيف للمعلم دوره وكيف للصديق و غيرهم في تغيير وثبات قناعاتنا ، رواية جميلة وأنصح بها
6067333668	Ein Buch über Freundschaften, Zwischenmenschliches, Abschiede und Wachstum. Ein Buch über Lehrer, Vorbilder und das Erwachsen- und Älterwerden. Über Lebensphasen und Abschnitte, über Festhalten und Weitergehen. Und über Erwartungshaltungen und Rollen. Ein Buch übers Nehmen und Geben.Ich bin glücklich nun auch diese Perle Hermann Hesse‘s gelesen zu haben und kann sagen, dass ich noch nie so eine Art von Roman gelesen habe. Danke für das Geschenk und die Bereicherung @chris ❤️
5337169377	This is an often overlooked work by Hesse, however it has much of his philosophy presented as a readable analogy to a game. Eastern influence seen, and similarities between the fictional game in the story to the true game of Go.
5577307449	Die Buchhändlerin, bei der ich dieses Buch gekauft habe, meinte: "Dieses Buch hat mein Leben verändert." Ich kann das gut verstehen, Hermann Hesse hat das Potenzial, einen die Welt mit neuen Augen sehen zu lassen und ich könnte genauso gut auch fünf Sterne geben. Ich gebe nur drei, weil es eine mühsame und nicht ganz befriedigende Lektüre für mich war.Ich hatte bei Beginn der Lektüre hohe Erwartungen, da ich mit den meisten Leuten, die mir immer wieder Hesse empfohlen haben, literarisch auf der gleichen Wellenlänge bin. Das Grundthema des Glasperlenspiels, nämlich eine Meta-Sprache, die alle Künste und Wissenschaften miteinander verbindet, so dass man beispielsweise das Muster eines bestimmten Architekturstils und seiner historischen Entwicklung auf ähnliche Muster in der Natur oder in Naturwissenschaften übertragen kann, erscheint mir im derzeitigen KI-Hype besonders interessant.Sehr schwer habe ich mir mit der Kastilianischen Gesellschaft, einer Art schöngeistigem Männerorden, getan, der von einer "Erziehungsbehörde" (sic!) mit unbeschränkter Macht und absoluter, niemals zu hinterfragender Autorität, geleitet wird. Eindimensionale (also nur an einem einzigen Wert oder Ideal ausgerichtete) Gesellschaften sind immer unerträglich, weil die Menschen die in ihnen leben müssen, sich allein an diesem einzigen Wert oder Ideal messen lassen müssen. So wie in früheren schrecklichen Zeiten das Militär alles beherrschte und die Kinder Kanonenboote hinter sich herzogen oder jetzt wir alle auf den Kapitalismus ausgerichtet sind und an ihm messen lassen müssen, leben die ausschließlich männlichen Schüler in der kastilianischen Diktatur mit voller Kraft ausschließlich für rein-geistige Studien zweckfreier Künste und Wissenschaften wie der Religion oder Musikwissenschaft. Es gibt letztlich nur vier erlaubte Tätigkeiten: Lehren, belehrt werden, allein studieren und meditieren. Entsetzlich! Vielleicht ist das Grauen des zweiten Weltkriegs für diese Flucht ins Schöngeistige verantwortlich, die ich in ähnlicher Form bei Arno Schmidt wiederzuerkennen meine.Allerdings stellt sich dann nach ca. 2/3 des Buches heraus, dass der Protagonist aus diesem kranken System ausbricht. Damit - aber leider zu spät - wurde ich mit dem Buch versöhnt und konnte das sensationelle Talent Hermann Hesses, geistige Zustände und ihre Veränderungen zu schildern und erlebbar zu machen, genießen.
7047019961	A very interesting fiction. I will have to think before writing my review. I loved the poetry part and the three stories.The book is about life and how we fair in it unknowingly! It was all encompassing in the idea that even though a country can be secluded from wars (as it was written between ww1 and ww2) how everything can be affected, even though one avoided the destruction! Castalia is a fictional place?? But was it? And who is Joseph Knecht or magister Ludi? Where did he come from. How did he have such a profound impact on Castalia? Where is Castalia? Why was he sent to have a dialogue with the Benediction? And maybe the pope? Was the book a religious one? Is education a seperate thing from everything else? What is the game about! It’s mentioned a lot but no proper explanation was afforded to us. In fact I have many questions with no answers. I have researched the book on many sites. The best was what was written on Wikipedia (in my opinion- see below list of the best sites) Book Review: The Glass Bead Game // Hermann Hesse : The Indiependenthttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gla...Did I dream of the main character? Yes of course. Did he deserve to drown at the end (ouch, spoiler). I think if the author had waited to show us his effect on the boy of “teto” before drawing him we might see the teachings in a different light. Somehow I felt that the author was a sad person, and he certainly likes to describe a lot to the last detail. The trees, the shrubs and even the bird that sits on the tree. But why isn’t there a description of the game! How to play it? Where did Joseph Knecht come from? What about his parents? Why was he devoid of the idea of love? I don’t know. But a lot of questions occurred to me while reading. The excerpts below are in arabic. Sorry if it’s a lot also. In fact the whole 600 pages could be excerpts.Excerpts إنه عندما غادر المكان وجد المدينة والدنيا وقد أصابهما تغيير وسحر أكثر مما لو كانت أعلام وباقات الزهور وأشرطة وصواريخ نارية قد زينتها. كان قد احس بعملية الإلهام التي يصح للإنسان ان يسميها بحق سرا قدسيا: لقد ظهر العالم المثالي له وفتح له أبوابه له في دعوة بالدخول، ذلك العالم المثالي الذي كانت نفسه الغريرة حتى ذلك الحين لا تعرفه إلا مما يحكى لها عنه ويصل الى أسماعها أو مما يخالجها من أحلام متأججة لم يعد هذا العالم المثالي بالنسبة إليه عالماً موجودا في مكان ما على بعد سحيق في الماضي أو المستقبل ، لا، لقد اصبح موجودا هنا، اصبح نشيطا فعالا، يرسل الإشعاعات ويبعث المبعوثين والرسل والسفراء، رجالا من نوع ذلك الأستاذ الشيخ الذي لم يكن في نظر يوزف طاعنا في الشيخوخة. من يعرف الموسيقى في المستخلصات التي استخلصتها لعبة الكريات الزجاجية، ربما يصبح لاعباً من لاعبي الكريات الزجاجية المجيدين، ولكنه يظل أبع ما يكون عن أن يصبح موسيقياً ، وعلى ما يبدو ، عن أن يصبح مؤرخا كذلك. فالموسيقى لا تتكون فقط من تلك الحركات والأشكال الفكرية البحتة التي نستخرجها منها، وإنما هي تتكون من قديم الزمان على مر القرون من الفرحة بما هو حسّي، من الفرحة بإنسياب النفس، وبوقع الإيقاع، وبالتلوينات والاحتكاكات والإثارات، التي تنشأ عند مزج الأصوات وضمّ الالات الموسيقية في عزف مشترك.كل الحياة، الحياة المادية والفكرية على حد سواء، ظاهرة ديناميكية لا تعي لعبة الكريات الزجاجية منها في أساسها إلا الناحية الاستطيقية (ربما هي كتابة esthetic بالترجمة نفسها)، وتعيها على الأغلب في صورة حركات إيقاعية الطلبة الذين كانوا يؤمنون بفكرة تناسخ الأرواح بل ويعتقدون في صحة السير التي ابتدعوها، لم يكن قليلا. وذلك لان صور الحياة السابقة التي تخيلوها كانت في اغلبها طبعا اكثر من تمرينات أسلوبية ودراسات تاريخيه ، كانت تصويرات لاماني الكاتبين أو تصويرات لأشخاصهم في شكل مرفع: فقد كان كتّاب السير في أغلب الأحوال يصورون أنفسهم في الثوب وفي الشخصية التي يتمنون تحقيقها ويعتقدون أنه المثل الأعلى.فجأة أن كل شيء في اللغة يسير إلى مركز وسر، وباطن العالم، يسير الى العالم الأول. كل انتقال من الكبير إلى الصغير في السوناتا، وكل تحور في أسطورة أو في شعيرة من الشعائر ، كل تركيب كلاسيكي فني ، هو ومضة تلك اللحظة، وطريق مباشر الى باطن سر العالم، الى المكان الذي تكتمل فيه القدسية الأبدية في اختلاج وتأجج هنا وهناك بين الشهيق والزفير، بين السماء والأرض، بين "الين" و "اليانج"يخيل الي أنه من الممكن ان يكون الأنسان لاعبا من لاعبي الكريات الزجاجية المجيدين، بل المتفوقين، أو ان يكون أستاذ اللعبة المُجد، دون ان يصل الى كشف سر اللعبة الحقيقي ومعناها البعيد. بل من الممكن ايضاً ان يتحول من ألمّ باللعبة أو علم علمها، فأصبح خبيرا في لعبة الكريات الزجاجية أو رئيسها ، والى شخص يصيب اللعبة بأخطار أكثر مما يمكن أن يلحقه بها أي شخص آخر. فإن باطنية اللعبة تهدف ككل باطنية الى بلوغ الواحد والى بلوغ الكل، والى النزول الى الأعماق، التي ليس بها سوى النفس الأبدي يحكم ذاته في شهيق وزفير أبدي.تنبؤات الطالع في كتاب التحورات:"نجاح عن طريق بسيط. وفي الثبات خلاص الجوّال""يأتي الجوال الى الدار ومعه ما يملك""فينال ثبات خادم شاب"وهذا ايضا نص العرافة:طيش الشباب يلاقي نجاحاً.لست أنا من يبحث عن الطائش الشاب.ولكني الطائش الشاب هو من يبحث عني.وأنا أعطي البيان من الطالع الأولفإذا كرر السؤال ،كان ذلك إثقالاً وإن أثقل لن أعطه بياناً والصمود هو الذي يدفع إلى الأمام إننا نحب ان ننظر الى الأيام العزيزة تنقضيلنجد اعز منها ينمو في مكانها:نباتا نادرا، نزرعه في الحديقةابناً نربيه، أو كتيباً نكتبه.ففينا تعيش روح من الروح الخالدةتعتبر ارواح كل الأزمان اخوة لها:روح تبقى بعد اليوم، لا أنت ولا أنا.من الممكن ان يتحول من ألمّ باللعبة أو علمها ، فأصبح خبيراً في لعبة الكريات الزجاجية أو رئيسها ، الى شخص يصيب اللعبة بأخطار أكثر مما يمكن أن يلحقه بها أي شخص آخر. فإن باطنية اللعبة تهدف الى بلوغ الواحد والى بلوغ الكل، والى النزول الى الأعماق ، التي ليس بها سوى النفس الأبدي يحكم ذاته بذاته في شهيق وزفير ابدّي. ومن أحس بمعنى اللعبة في ذاته الى نهايته ، ينتهي امره كلاعب، ويرتفع عن التعدد، ويفقد القدرة على التمتع بالابتكار والبناء والتركيب.لأنه يكون قد عرف متعة أخرى ولذة أخرى.ولمّا كنت اعتقد أنني أصبحت قريبا من معنى لعبة الكريات الزجاجية ، فإنني ارى انه من صالحي وصالح الآخرين ان لا احترفها ، وفي ان احول الى الموسيقى .كان تولي أستاذ جديد منصبه ووقته الأول فيه أشبه بالسير على الصراط المستقيم .ومن الشخصيات المحببة الى المؤرخين من هذا النوع شخصية الجاويش الذي يتحول بين يوم وليلة الى دكتاتور (هنا يقصد أدولف هتلر)يود الماجستر ان تكون اول لعبة احتفالية له عندما يقلد منصب الاستاذية. كان هذا الخاطر يتلخص في بناء اللعبة من الناحية الانشائية ومن ناحية الأبعاد على أساس التصميم الكونفيشيوسي الديني لبناء البيت الصيني: التوجيه إلى الجهات الجهات الأربع الأصلية، البوابات، جدار الأرواح ، علاقات المباني والأقنية واستخداماتها ، وترتيبها بحسب النجوم والتقويم والحياة العائلية ، ويضاف إلى ذلك رمزية الحديقة وقواعد اسلوبها.إن الحظ لا شأن له بالعقل ولا بالأخلاق ، إنه شيء في ذاته سحري، شيء انحدر الينا من مرحلة مبكرة شابة من مراحل الأنسانية. فالسعيد الساذج الذي تغدق عليه الجنيات من هباتها ويحيطه الإلهه بالتدليل، ليس مادة للتأمل العقلي وليس بالتالي مادة لكتابة السِير، بلهو رمز يقف وراء حدود العنصر الشخصي والعنصر التاريخيّ.وأنا عندما لا اشترك معك في حزنك وهمك وأدعمها ينتقلان الي بالعدوى، لا أعني انكار حزنك وغمك وعدم حملهما محمل الجد. آنني اعترف بالسحنة التي تتخذها والتي فرضتها عليك الحياة والقدر، فهي تناسبك وهي لك وأنا استلطفها واحترمها وان كنت أرجو لها ان تتغير. امًا من أين أتت؟ فهذا شيء أستطيع معرفته إلا تخمينا ، ولسوف تحكي لي عنه في المستقبل أو تكتمه عني. وما أرى إلا انك تحيا حياة عصبية.ولكن لماذا تعتقد أنني لن أستطيع أو لن أريد ان أنصفك وأحق ما بك من هم. ( جملة جميلة لمن يفرضون علينا همومهم)ومعرفتنا بتاريخ الدنيا تصوره لنا كما لو كان مكونا من صراعات غاشمة على السلطة والنعيم والبلاد والمواد الخام والمال، باختصار على اشياء مادية كمية، اشياء نعتبرها نحن لا فكرية وحقيرة.وكان كنشت سعيدا جداً لأنه لم يكن يتعلم ما كان في نفسه بل كان يتعلم الترصد والإنصات والتلصص والملاحظة والدر واليقظة والإحساس والاقتفاء ان كاستاليا دولة قائمة بذاتها ، وقريتنا- قريةً الاعبين- دولة صغيرة داخل الدولة، إنها جمهورية صغيرة ، ولكنها جمهورية قديمة ذات جدور، تقف في مستوى الجمهوريات الأخرى وتعلوها في شعورها بذاتها نتيجة لوظيفتها ذات الصفة الفنية الخاصة ، تلك الصفة التي توشك ان تكون قدسية. إننا نمتاز بمهمة المحافظة على قدس أقداس كاستاليا، على سرها الخاص ورمزها الفريد ألا هو لعبة الكريات الزجاجية.كثيرا ما كان كنشت يحس رغبة ملتهبة تجره الى العالم والى الناس والى الحياة البسيطة- إذا كانت ذه الحياة البسيطة موجودة بحق في العالم الخارجي المجهول.والحق أن غالبيتنا كثيرا ما أحست من حين لآخر بهذا الحنين، وبهذا الإحساس بالفراغ وبالحياة في هواء بالغ الرقة، وتلك مشكلة عرفتها الهيئة التربوية، أو على الأقل نعلم أنها كانت دائمة البحث من حين إلى آخر عن وسائل لمجابهتها وكانت تعادل هذا النقص بزيادة الاهتمام بالرياضة البدنية وبالالعاب وبمحاولة ممارسة ضروب من الحرف وأعمال البستنة ويقول ان تاريخ العالم هو سباق في الزمن، وعدو نحو الكسل ، نحو السلطة ، نحو الكنوز، وأن المعول فيه هو على من تكون له القوة والحظ أو الندالة بقدر يجعله ينتهز الفرصة ولا يدعها تفلت منه. أما العمل الفكري والعمل الثقافي والعمل الفني، فهي أعمال على عكس ذلك تماما، إنها انطلاق من عبودية الزمن، إنها عبور الإنسان من قذارة غرائزه وكسله الى مستوى آخر، الى ما تجرد عن الزمن أو ما تحرر من الزمن، عبوره الى ما هو الهي، إلى اللاتاريخي، الى ما هو ضد التاريخ بالضبط.كان يحتاج الى الحب ويحس دافعاً يحركه إلى ان يكون بينه وبين غيره من الرجال فرق والى ان ينضوي للعادات والتقاليد تماماً ، والى أن يستمع الى الحكايات السخيفة التي تحكيها امرأته وجاراتها عن حياة وصحة وحركة الآخرين.‎وقال تيتو في نفسه وقد تملكه الفزع ، ويلاه، أنني احمل اثم موته! واحس الآن ، حيث لم يعد هناك مجال للاعتداد بالنفس أو للمقاومة ، احس في ألم قلبه كيف احب هذا الرجل، ومع احساسه بالاشتراك في حمل اثم موت الاستاذ، احساساً لم يلبث وجدانه ان ثار عليه، أتاه في رعدة قدسية خاطر يشبه التفكير يصور له أن هذا الإثم سيغير منه ومن حياته وسيتطلب منه شيئا أعظم مما تطلب هو من نفسه.بعض من المراجعات على اليوتيوبhttps://youtu.be/MCl2HWJ-_fI?si=tX9wi...https://youtu.be/EeulHR6ytVc?si=l88Yp...https://youtu.be/PiabRX8SOXs?si=AlwmS...https://youtu.be/tDlBtfCqioM?si=9VErG...https://youtu.be/TKn_XG4ZD1w?si=qiz9K...
2084895983	Hesse'nin okuduğum 2. kitabı. İlk okuduğum kitabı Narziss Goldmund beni baya etkilemişti. Felsefeyi kitabın başından sonuna olaylarla öyle güzel harmanlamış ki Hesse elimden bırakamadım. Boncuk Oyunu maalesef öyle değil. Felsefe kısmı bir noktadan sonra ortaya çıkıyor. Okurken başlarda baya bocaladım. Yan gelip yattım, okuyan arkadaşlara "Nasıl okuyorsun?" diye sorular sordum. Yavaş yavaş da olsa kitabı bitirdim. Bu kitap daha çok toplumsal eleştiri barındırıyor. Kitabın başları genelde tanım ağırlıklı. Boncuk oyunu nasıl olduğunu zihnimizde az çok kurguluyoruz. Kitabı okuyanların zihninde aynı düşünceler canlanıyor. Kitabın ortalarından sonra Hesse'nin o doğu felsefesiyle harmanlanmış görüşlerini bizlere yansıtıyor. Aslında kitap biyografik bir eser. Yani kurgusal olarak biyografik eser. Josef Knecht hayatına tanıklık ediyoruz. Bu sebeple oluşum romanı diyebiliriz. Kastalya Tarikatı üstün başarıya sahip öğrencileri yetiştiren (Sanat,bilim vb.)dışa kapalı elit bir topluluk. Josef başarıyla tarikatta kıdem olarak yükselen bir eğitmen. Josef tarikatın istediği gibi bir birey olurken işler farklı yöne yöneliyor. Romanın olay çatışması bu eksen etrafında dönüyor. Romanda karakterler farklı görüşü simgeliyor. Yazar Josef üzerinden hümanist bakış açısını bizlere yansıtmıyor yediriyor :) . Hesse zaten doğu gezgini bir yazar. Doğu felsefesinden epey etkinlenmiş. Kitapta da bolca bu felsefenin kırıntılarını görüyoruz. . Romanda daha burada ifade edemediğim nice güzel detaylar var. Özellikle müzik konusunda görüşlerine katılmamak elde değil. ( Ne dedi ki? :) Söylemem) Nobel ödülü almış bu kitabı zaman yayarak okumanızı tavsiye ederim.
3415159195	A novel for reflectionIn this, his final, futuristic novel that also put the clincher on the Nobel, Hermann Hesse brings together all the themes he had developed individually in his previous books into a blockbuster, one that left me pondering the multiple illusion(s) in life.First, the let’s take a look at the new world that Hesse ponderously builds up over the first 60 pages: Philosophy and Literature are out; Music, Mathematics and Meditation are in. The Age of the Feuilleton that we lived in has imploded, and scholarship has become a monastic calling. The unknown country in which this story takes place has decided to fund and house its academics in a province called Castalia. Castalians are free to pursue any branch of study for as long as they desire as perennial students. Castalia, in turn, offers the broader country its teachers. The crowning event in Castalia is the Glass Bead Game, one based on music and symbol, one that can be evolved indefinitely by writing new components into it, all of which are archived and integrated into the overall Game, a replacement to the arts that had fallen out of favour. The Game is conducted for a period of ten days annually, with trained gamers participating, a sort of Olympic Games of the Mind and Soul. The custodian of the Game is the Magister Ludi. Joseph Knecht, an orphan of high mental, musical and spiritual abilities, is groomed to be a future Magister Ludi. He readily puts himself to the task by attending the Elite Schools designated for Castalians, skilling himself in the Game, and undertaking assignments abroad to teach the Game to amateurs. When he is elected into the Order of the Game, he laments the loss of freedom to study at will, for he is now burdened with the duties and responsibilities of office, some political, some questionable. He nevertheless plays the loyal soldier and ascends the pinnacle to become the youngest Magister Ludi while still in his forties. He executes his role with finesse, but after 10 years in the job, doubts start to plague him. His childhood friend and opposite number, Plinio Designario, also educated in Castalia but now married and running a business in the outside world, reminds him that all is not well in his cloister—Castalia is living on the largess of the country, and the Game, a pure Castalian creation, will be the first to go if funding and support is cut. Like Siddhartha, in Hesse’s novel by that name, Knecht is faced with the dilemma of staying put or renouncing his exalted position as Magister to enter the outside world which is treacherous beyond what he had ever learned within his safe cloister walls.Accompanying the story of Knecht is a section on the poetry he wrote as a student. They start with promise but end with a premonition of an end coming to the Game – perhaps a reflection on Knecht’s state of mind.The most interesting section to me was the three short stories at the end of the book, a collection written by Knecht as an academic exercise when he was a student and which is titled “Three Lives.” The first story has him living as a Rainmaker in a pre-historic matriarchal tribe. In the second story he (or his protagonist) is a Confessor around the time of the early Christians. In the final story, he is an Indian prince, living at the time of Siddhartha. In these three dramatically told stories, Hesse brings out the themes that pre-occupied him throughout his work: the Christ-like sacrifice of one's life for the rest of mankind, the protagonist—antagonist conflict, the life of the hermit-prophet, integration and unity, the master—student relationship, and the lesson that life is an illusion.The only negative I found in this novel was that Hesse chose to tell Knecht’s life as a biography. So, the biographer/historian (Hesse) goes into a very analytical, data-rich, recounting of most of what is happening, telling, telling, telling for most of the time, which in the 1940’s may have been acceptable, but which in our times of shrunken attention spans is a tough slog.And yet, if you take the trouble to ponder the issues Hesse puts on the table, this book will keep you thinking long after the last page is turned.
3748738080	─── ⋅ ∙ ∘ ☽ ༓ ☾ ∘ ⋅ ⋅ ───[ review ]i'm a die-hard fan of hesse, but the fact that anyone can sit through 500 pages of this mindless drivel is beyond me.i would have ordinarily forgiven hesse's clunky jargon, because sometimes he has wonderful ideas and thoughts, and beautiful characters fashioned out of intense abstraction. other times, i could get over it because there was a plot—like narcissus and goldmund, which, despite its uncomfortable misogyny, takes the reader on a compelling journey. But god, the jargon in this book really got to me. especially the dialogue—you'd get two-page long paragraph conversations of just utter waffle when the characters could say exactly what they needed to have said in two lines. and i'm not saying that all dialogue in literature has to be lifelike, of course, that would take the fun out of it—all I'm saying is that it shouldn't be a large dose of sleep medicine.you'd think that over the course of his career, hesse's writing would have only improved. this was one of his last—if not his last—books, and with all the critics considering this a 'classic', i went in with high expectations. After all, demian was—and still is—my favourite book of all time.these high expectations were belted into oblivion after i forced myself through the book's 'general introduction', an interminable deluge of words upon words of mind-numbingly boring info-dumping 'world history'. Still, I had my hopes up. a little battered i arrived at the first chapter of the glass bead game, thinking to myself how excited I was to learn what exactly this glass bead game was.five hundred pages later and i can tell you that I still have absolutely no clue what the glass bead game is. great, I get it: it's a mystical fusion of all the arts and sciences and it's a game of this interdisciplinary universality and it's all so mysterious and incredibly intellectual. but hesse never does us the favour of actually telling us what the game is. it's like reading five hundred pages about the life of a football manager without even knowing what football is. the name for that phenomenon is 'a waste of my time'.then we have the case of our protagonist; our wonderful magister ludi, joseph knecht. he's like a flat cutout of a character. anything he says makes him look duller than a piece of cardboard. hesse tries to pin him up against plinio designori because ah, foils but it does absolutely nothing but whip up some incredibly tedious conversations between the two where they lament the past so wistfully it brings tears to my eyes.then we get onto hesse's staples, which I've tolerated for all five of his books that I've read (in fact, they were what initially drew me to them), but here just irk me. these include the elite boys' boarding school (his protagonists all attend these); the monastery (no women here either); a misogynistic protagonist or a world devoid of women (seriously, I think there's about two women in the entirety of this novel who appear for a couple of pages and then dissipate into the sexless void); the strange and just frankly ridiculous death of the protagonist (here, it's a swimming accident). actually, i'll retract my last point, because those last two pages of the novel were possibly the most riveting pages of a book I've ever read. the reason for this is no other than because something actually happens. nothing happens for the entirety of the book—this young boy is incredibly intelligent, gets selected to go to a more elite school, then an even more elite one, then hangs out in a monastery for a bit, becomes magister ludi, and manages this game that I still don't have a clue about for the rest of the book. this novel practically had me on my deathbed. but the last two pages—those were something else. Because joseph knecht actually dies. It's incredible, and it's the only taste of action i get in this sad excuse of a 'classic'. hesse finally gets a grip on some solid description and imagery instead of fumbling around with his jargon-heavy postmodern (I use this pejoratively rather than accurately) fragmented blatantly mock-biographical writing style. but then it ends, and then he rounds the book off with some naff poetry and some more 'posthumous writings'.i'll give anyone a good sum of money if they can tell me what exactly this book is about. it earns one star instead of zero for the last two pages of the book where the protagonist finally pegs it. i enjoyed those fleeting pages with a great deal of schadenfreude.[ ✮ 1 star ✮ ]
5467500367	Autorul "Jocului mărgelelor de sticlă" trăiește încă din tinerețe dramatice crize interioare, ispitit mai mult de ideea de izolare și se lasă incitat la meditație. De aceea acest roman are un caracter autobiografic, iar personajele sunt de fapt o proiecție a propriilor stări lăuntrice, astfel scrierea lui în proză devine un act de confesiune.Temele de bază din romanul Jocul cu mărgele de sticlă sunt regăsite și în celelalte scrieri ale sale, cum ar fi raportul dintre individ și societate, ciocnirea dintre lumea reală și cea ideală, conflictul dintre pornirile serafice și cele demonice ale sufletului omenesc.În romanul "Jocul cu mărgele de sticlă", Josef Knecht se dovedește a fi un caracter puternic, dominat de spirit și de dorința lui arzătoare de a cunoaște profunzimea lucruruilor. Romanul este un bildungsroman, în care etapele personajului se succed cronologic și oferă cursivitate și o mai bună înțelegere a biografiei acestuia. Scrierea lui Hesse este o biografie pură, o biografie spirituală, lipsită de legături de ordin ereditar, unde cultul personalității este dominant.ˮJosef Knecht face parte dintre fericiții ce par născuți și predestinați anume pentru Castalia, pentru Ordin și pentru intrarea în serviciul autorității educativeˮ. Knecht evoluează ascendent, însă în planul spiritualității, regăsind în tainicele sale chemări o cale spre cunoaștere și spre împăcarea spiritului cu lumea.
1310208970	رواية جليلة مسنة حكيمةأشبه شئ في أناتها وتهاديها وطول نفس صاحبها بحديث أذكياء المسنين ممن حلب الدهر أشطره وتقلب في هذي الحياة ظهرا لبطن ولست هنا في مقام إثبات رأيي وما عن لي من خواطر وآراء أثناء قرائتها أو الإشارة إلى ما قدحت بذهني ونبهت بقلبي وأحيت من موات شعوري في غمرة الحياة وتحت وطأة عواديها فإن هذا يقتضيني ذهنا صافيا ونفسا جميعا وقلبا متنبها وكذاك يقتضيني وقتا طويلا لنقل كافة نقولاتي ما يعين على جلاء الأفكار التي عرضت لي وتلك النقولات كثيرة وطويلة طولا شديدا وتحتاج أيضا إلى تنسيق وترتيب لدمجها في مفاصل الكلام وهذا ما أرجئه ريثما أفرغ مما يستغرق نفسي الآن من مادي الأمور وسخيفها وحتى أعيد قراءة بعض الفصول التي احتاج لقراءتها ثانية حتى تثبت معانيها وأحسن تصورها تصورا غير منقوص أو شائه وتبقى بعض الإشارات يستعين بها من عساه يمر على هذه الكلمات قبل قراءة الرواية أولا- فالرواية قد استغرقت مؤلفها عشر سنوات تأليفا وكتابة فهي أقرب شئ إلى خلاصة موجزة مكتنزة لرؤيته و عصارة ما انتهى إليه فمن هنا لزم الصبر عليها وتحمل ما يعرض من الملل والضيق ثانيا- ما قد يرد على الخاطر لطولها ولرتابتها وبطء حركتها الظاهر ومدارها على شخصية وحيدة لا تعدوها من أنها مملة وقد قال بذلك بعض من قرأها ولا أخفي أني كثيرا ما سئمتها وضقت بها لكني لا أعد تلك الملالة من جنس الملل الفارغ الممستنكر لكنها ملالة الامتلاء !! ذاك أنه طويل النفَس مسترسل محتفل الصدر مما أودعه على مر الأعوام فهو في كتابته يريد أن يضمن تلك السطور ويودع الألفاظ خلاصات الخبرة المتطاولة التي لا تمر بها النفس إلا مرا بطيئا لا تكاد تستشعره وتقف عليه فمن كانت كتابته كأنما تكظ النفس وتملأها وهو هنا يختلف عن دستويفسكي أن الأخير كثير الشخصيات ويصطنع شيئا من الحبكة والأحداث يبثها شيئا من حرارة نفسه وتوهجها أما صاحبنا فإنه "متأمل" متأن يكاد يكون باردا برودة الحكمة لا برودة السخافة والغثاثة ثالثا- يُفضل قراءة السير الثلاث الأخيرة بتمعن وتأملها جيدا قبل الشروع في الرواية فإنها صغيرة وتقرب الكاتب وأسلوبه وأفكاره إلى القارئ الذي لم يألف هيسه مثلي وهي إلى ذلك تكسبه دفعة معنوية وأنسا بالكاتب يعينه على تكبد قراءة الأصل الطويل رابعا- الترجمة جيدة إلا أنها تقصر -في رأيي- جدا عن الوفاء بأداء نفَس هيسه إلينا وأحسب أنها تحتاج إعادة ترجمة تخطها قلم شاعر في المقام الأول مجيد للعربية متمكن من تراكيبها وأساليب الأداء فيها كي ينقل إلينا روح هذا المتصوف الألماني خامسا- أحسب أن دراسة هذه الرواية في ضوء التصوف الإسلامي قد تسفر عن نتائج طريفة ولنا عودة بعد حين بإذن الله
1846176717	من هو يوزف كنشت ؟ هو كما تقص الرواية حكايته اللودي ماستر للعبة الكريات الزجاجية وهي لعبة الفلاسفة والمفكرين في الزمن المستقبلي والتي اجتثت من سطحية صحافة التسلية رواية اسسها هرمان عن زمن متخيل لمدرسة تشبه مدرسة فيثاغورس واكادمية افلاطون ومقرها هنا كاستاليا لها مقرات في اماكن اخرى وفروع تابعة لها ، يترفع شخصييات هذه المجتمع بالاختلاط بالعالم الانساني البسيط ويدير كل سنة مهرجانا احتفالا بلعبة الكريات الزجاجية ، يتتبع القاريء في الصفحات شخصية اشهر استاذ للعبة الكريات من بدء نبوغه حتى ينخرط في صفوة السلك الكستالي ويتفرد بالمسؤلية وبطريقه حيث انه يتمتع بشخصية رصينة حكيمة وفي نفس الوقت كاريزما عالية تجذب اليه الناس وتحببهم فيه فيصبح سفيرا لكستاليا وينجح في تكوين رباط ودي بين الطائفة وطائفة البندكتين الدينية .الرواية برأيي على الرغم من حماسي الشديد لخوض عوالم هرمان بعد سدهارتا ، الا انني لازمني ملل شديد في بعض اجزائها ذكرني وضع يوزف و مراحل حياته وكان المجتمع الذي ينتمي اليه يحاول ان يكون يوتوبيا ما ذو حكمة شديدة التركز ومثالية متطرفة ذو تفرد جمالي قد لايتحمله الانسان الطبيعي ، القى هرمان في الرواية كما سدهارتا الكثير من فلسفته وحكمه لكنها جاءت في اماكن اشبه بمواعظ ممله مترفة التطلع للاعلى ، فيها يبدو كنشت رغم صغر سنه اشبه بعجوز مرت عليه التجارب تترا بلا انقطاع ، قد تبدو اماكن كمنشاة اللعبة الزجاجية حلم لبعض المثقفين والعلماء ورواد الموسيقى الا انها اجمل في الحلم على من يعشها واقعا وهذا رايي المتواضع وكقارئة احلم بمكان شبيه لايقاطعني فيه احد ولكنه يظل مجرد حلم لطيف.
131009584	Could have been 200 pages less. On a similar note, I received an email from a Chinese friend of mine today who is in Australia for student exchange. This email reverberated many things in Hesse's Glass Bead Game. Here's an extract from the email to show you:.actually, since I was born, I have lived in the university I am studying now. My father also graduated from that school and now is a chemistry engineer . A wall will protect the university from outside world. In the university, there are hospitals, canteens, supermarkets, education from kindergarten to university. Most of teachers and their families will live in the campus, and I am a member of these children who lived in such a special places. In guangzhou, cantonese is mo popular, but in the campus, madarin is the main language.It is not impossible for us to just stay in the campus for all week. Education is the most important thing in our families. most of us want to get a phd and we will not pay much attention on the fashion things. Books play an important role in our childhood.So of all the nations to take up Hesse's model depicted in this novel, it appears as if this university in China at least has taken a relatively similar approach. Quite amazing.
4035003157	15 ani mai tarziu…i-a venit in sfarsit randul la citit. Nu stiu daca as fi inteles si daca as fi gustat-o la fel de mult daca as fi citit-o in liceu asa cum trebuia. Desi in liceu i-am frunzarit si pe Cioran si pe Jung si pe Platon. Poate. Cine stie. Citita la 30 de ani cred ca “loveste” putin altfel si te provoaca in moduri interesante.Herman Hesse construieste un paradis al intelectualilor, un soi de cetate a artei, stiintei si filosofiei care nu se ocupa cu producerea de noi capodopere, cat de conservarea, clasificarea si analizarea celor deja existente.Nu, nu aflam exact ce inseamna si cum se joaca acest joc cu margele de sticla. Pentru ca de fapt nici nu e relevant cu adevarat. Mai important decat jocul in sine e ceea ce graviteaza si cei ce graviteaza in jurul lui si dinamica lor.Cred ca cel mai mult mi-a placut faptul ca Josef Knecht se contureaza ca un personaj profund si complex in ciuda faptului ca nu stim nimic despre familia lui, primii ani de viata, tumultul adolescentin si primile iubiri. Asta spune multe despre maiestria lui Herman Hesse.
3896233520	Deși am trecut greu de primele 60 de pagini, cartea m-a cucerit încet-încet și nu regret că mi-am făcut curaj să o abordez în ciuda reputației de carte “grea”. Totuși, mi-a devenit evident cu acest volum că stilul autorilor germani clasici este departe de a deveni preferatul meu. Este arid, pedant, repetitiv didactic, deloc fermecător, ci, mai degrabă, plictisitor, obositor, dăunător poveștii pe care o spune. În loc de vraja lecturii în care ador să mă cufund, am citit concentrat, atent, ca pentru școală. Recunosc, e și greșeala mea de a o fi citit după realist-magicul Garcia Marquez. 🤷🏻‍♀️
1804851354	I went to see the Harmony Korine movie Trash Humpers in the cinema and some people walked out. They presumably were not expecting a movie called Trash Humpers to be entirely about people humping trash. Those people probably read The Glass Bead Game and not once assumed the book to consist of a detailed description of The Glass Bead Game. Unlike most of the reviews on here complaining that there are no details explaining the game. Obviously the book would be rubbish if Hessse had done that and would more than likely be as boring as the Eschaton bit in Infinite Jest.
34545959	Hesse was almost seventy when he did this one and the passion of some of his earlier novels is lacking. Here, rather than a tortured young protagonist finding peace after much adventure, we find an older, peaceful man seeking confrontation.
2134472582	Kitaba başlarken, Boncuk Oyunu'nu anlayabilmek için çok çaba sarfettim. Ancak kitap ilerledikçe, asıl olanın oyunun nasıl oynandığının olmadığını anladım. Zor bir başlangıç, harika bir anlatım ile devam ediyor. Magister Ludi ile üstad Alexander arasındaki dialog çok etkileyici.
7241245144	„Възможно е да дойдат времена на ужас и най-големи беди. Но ако в бедата все пак остане някакво щастие, то може да бъде само духовното, обърнато назад към това да се спаси образованието от по-ранните епохи и напред към ведрото и неуморно представяне на духа от едно време, което иначе изцяло ще потъне във вещественото.""Сърце, вземи си сбогом и хайде, оздравявай!""Бог ни праща отчаянието не за да ни убие, праща ни го, за да събуди у нас нов живот."
1785654653	روايةٌ مفاجئةٌ في برودها وفي جمودها التاريخي البحت، ورائعةٌ في خروجها على سخونة النمط الطبيعي من الروايات، إلى الإطار الأوسع الذي يُجبر القارئ على قراءةِ عملٍ بديعٍ فريدٍ من نوعه، بعيدٍ عن القيام بدور العمل المشجّع على الانفعال العاطفي الذي تجرّه الرواية ذات النمط الاعتيادي. هذه روايةٌ تدخل وجدان الإنسان بآليّةٍ ميكانيكيّة بحت، عقلانيّة روائية في الوقت نفسه، ومن الصعب أن تصفها بدقّة. هيرمان هيسه في هذا الرواية، يُشعرك أنه يخبرك بكلّ شيءٍ قبل أوانه، في الحين الذي هو لا يُخبرك فيه بأيّ شيءٍ إطلاقًا. أنت تعرف الحدث تلو الآخر، ولكنّك لا تعرفه أبدًا.. لا تشرد عن الرواية قيد أنملةٍ رغم جمودها ورغم تتابع السرد الذي لا يحاول أن يبرز أي جانبٍ للإثارة.. تريد معرفة المزيد، لا من الأحداث أبدًا، بل من العمق والتحليل الذي لا مثيل له.تميّز هيرمان هيسه في رواياته السابقة التي قرأتها وفتنت بها تمامًا، ذئب البوادي ودميان، بعمق توغّله في تعقيدات النفس البشريّة وإنتاج المعرفة من خلال ذلك، في حين ملامسته للقارئ ملامسةً عاطفيّةً محسوسة ومباشرة، فالوجدان هنا أمرٌ أساسي.. حيث يهرب في تلك الروايات عن أيّ مثاليّةٍ من الممكن أن تطغى عليها شخصياته، فلا يُمكنه أن يدخل تعقيداتٍ لشخصياتٍ مثالية..وعلى العكس تمامًا هنا، هو يدخل وجدانك دون أن يحرّك عاطفتك، ويتوغّل في النفس البشريّة المعقدة لشخصيّة مثاليّة، مكسّرًا القوالب التي أتى بها، ولكن متفوّقًا عليها بمراحل، في عالمٍ خلقه وأبدع في سردِه، بقدرةٍ لا متناهية في الترميز للواقع وفي الاعتراض عليه. هو، يتحدث على لسانِ "يوزف كنشت"، بمعرفةٍ تاريخيّةٍ فلسفيّةٍ عميقة، يشوبها غموض لعبة الكريات الزجاجية المقصود، ويتميّز فيها الجزء الأخير من الكتاب والذي يتمثّل في "مؤلفات يوزف كنشت"، وهو الذي يُمثّل الخط الفاصل الحقيقي ما بين هيسه وبين شخصيّته الخيالية الرائعة. روايةٌ، قد تحتل الصدارة في قائمة الروايات المهمة التي قرأتها، ولا يُمكن الحكم عليها بأقل من ذلك.
1350793911	عمل عظيم ..يشتمل على رؤية خطيرة ، وصاحبه في طرحه لها كأنما أرقه هم اغتصاب الثقافة في عصر صحافة التسلية، واللعبة التي تجري فيها الرواية والتي لم نعلم عنها إلا انها لعبة ربط بين العلوم ونسجها في وحدة واحدة هي ما نراه الإنقاذ العلوم والمعارف وتخليتها من أبدي العابثين بهاكيف يصبح العلم قوة، وهل العلم في ذاته قوة ،، ام ان له شرطا زائدا عليه يجعله ان حصل عاملا في النهوض، وان انتفى عنه كان عاملا في انحطاط الأمم.سؤال ما فتئ يؤرقني منذ أشعله الغزالي رحمه الله في خاطري مشكلةً ماثلة لها تجليات واضحة ، كل هذا الى أن رأيت رواية هيسه على رف المكتبةيكثر الحديث في هذه الآونة باسم العلم وروح العلم عن هدم الأصنام التي تنشئها الأديان والعادات ، ويقدم العلم بمعناه العام الفضفاض على أنه المخلص من الوقوع في فخ التبعية والتقليد، وأنه -هكذا دون تحديد- القوة التي بها تتقوم الحضارة وعليها تغتذي والحال أن التمييز بين العلم النافع والتحقق من شروط كونه سيقي من الوقوع في فخ جعل العلم نفسه صنما لا منهجاكتاب المرحلة بالنسبة لي ،،وهو فاتحة الفهم ، الفهم الذي نكسر به زيوف الثقافة والعلم ، ونرفع فيه من شأن العلم النافع
