177965627	Oh, Emma. Emma, Emma, Emma. Darling, why must you make it so easy ? No, dear, (for once) I don’t mean for the men. I mean for everyone else in the world who goes into this book just looking for an excuse to make fun of you. I would say that most people don’t know that much about France, but they do know a few things: that they like their baguettes, their socialism, Sartre, dirrrty dirrty sexy lurrrve and they despise this thing called the bourgeoisie. This book doesn’t really do a thing to disprove any of this (though I can’t say baguettes had a prominent place in the plot), and I expect that it had a great deal to do with starting the last two stereotypes. Emma, my dear, Desperate Housewives isn’t your fault, but you can see why some people might blame you, don’t you? Your constant, throbbing whining about how your (plentiful) food isn’t served on crystal platters, how your dresses(of which you have more than a typical country doctor’s wife) aren’t made of yards of spider-spun silk, and most of all how your husband dresses wrong, talks wrong, thinks wrong, WEARS THE WRONG HAT (!!), and is so offensively happy with you that he enjoys coming straight home to tell you about his day and relax in front of his fireplace every night instead of going out drinking- well, there’s a saying about the smallest violin, isn’t there?It makes it easy for people to plausibly dismiss this story with things like this: (If it makes you feel better, dear, you are hardly the only one.. Your other compatriots in 19th century repressed female misery receive similar treatment: )It is easy to despise you, Emma. You and your seemingly shallow priorities, the unthinking selfish harm you did to your husband AND your baby girl, the endless excuses you had for your, frankly, off the charts stupid behavior, the fact that you didn’t even try and communicate how unhappy you were to the guy who loved you who might’ve done something about it (since all the evidence shows that he is willing to COMPLETELY CHANGE HIS LIFE whenever you ask him to) and, finally (what can seem to be) the incredibly coward move you made in finding a way to not face the consequences your childish sense of the world couldn’t believe would eventually come up. What goes around comes around ,as the wise chanteur sayeth. (Perhaps the alternate cover above should substitute ‘Justin Timberlake’ for Sassy Gay Friend.)That’s pretty much how I felt about you for about 150 pages after you made your entrance, Emma. While you started your endlessly copied, endlessly bastardized fall from Angel in the Home Grace, and while you tried to make a saint out of yourself for not having sex with a young clerk who couldn’t have supported you anyway. You were simply the grandmother of Lady Chatterley, an extended protest letter to a dead king I couldn’t care less about.But in the end, you won, Emma. I couldn’t escape you. Seriously, y’all, this book would not leave my head alone, for days, and I thought… many different and contradictory things about it. In the end, though, I kept coming back to one thought: the most terrifying thing I can think of is getting caught in Emma Bovary’s eyes. Did everyone read that profile about Dan Savage this weekend about infidelity and marriage? I did. Emma is the literary incarnation of Savage’s argument. Her eyes are on the cover of this book, and the more I looked at them, the more disturbed I got. Those eyes are the reason that marriage is so frightening, why ‘commitment issues’ exist. This is a novel about how reality can look just the same to you from one day to the next, but to your partner, it can have turned into a hell or a heaven, even if it is the same Tuesday routine as the last one. Emma’s gaze, how each time she fixes her eyes on some scheme of happiness and how those eyes transform everything they see. She shows how unstable marriage is, how thin the foundations are- resting on nothing but the words- “I love you.” Words that just need one more word to dissolve the entire thing. That’s it, you guys. One word and someone’s will to speak it is all that stands between a solid marriage and one that is over- no matter how much paperwork you sign, how many kids you have, houses you fill with furniture. You never really know what the person across from you is thinking. How do you really know what motivates someone? Are they with you because they have made a resolution to be? Are they there with you because the stars shine in your eyes? Are they perfect to you because they are about to leave? Marriage, for better or worse, no matter what people say, adds so many complications. It is the commitment that people twist and bend over and around in so many different contortions to try to make it work- because it is a marriage, because it means something. How difficult is it to trust that people are simply what they say they are? Charles is simple and straightforward and rather sweet- and Emma hates him for it. She smiles and smiles and smiles… and then cheats on him, bankrupts him, tries to prostitute herself and kills herself rather than spend another day with him. This is the most anxiety inducing book I have ever read about marriage. It’s the 19th century where you have to make a vow for life that you can't get out of, not really, in order to test the idea that you might want to be with someone. If you're wrong, that's it. You've failed. It’s all-or-nothing. Emma is the incarnation of the expectations of the institution at the time- all-or-nothing. Madame Bovary is destroyed because she tries to put her all into Charles, then Rodolphe and then Leon, and none of them can withstand it. Each of them are good for different things, and only for a little while, and she can't accept it. That is not the ideal. She won't accept less than the ideal. You guys, she's nothing more than exactly what she is told is available to her- granted, she's after the best of what she's told is available: the ideal. But why do we hold that against her? As long as we live in a society where we’re told to strive after the ideal, to never give up, you will have people who destroy themselves and everyone around them to get it. Savage’s discussion of what the “ideal” means in real life is enlightening and pertinent here, I think. He talks about how you have to be willing to change a lot and make a huge effort to keep the deal of monogamy alive. Of course everyone has their limits, and in many marriages, the trade offs of one person’s limits for the others (I won’t do this, and you won’t do that- I won’t do that, but I will do this) end up making the deal of monogamy work. But you have to be honest about it, you have to be able to say things that you’ve never said out loud before. You have to admit that you won’t be happy unless you live a life where you have crystal knickknacks on your fireplace, and you get off from pies being thrown in your face. But it’s not that easy- Emma was on her deathbed, writhing in agony from eating arsenic, and she still couldn’t tell Charles what she wanted from him.I can’t blame Emma, ultimately. It actually made me think, of all things, a bit about Planet of Slums. That book talks about the millions of people who have been born outside the system, in illegal settlements to parents who are illegal themselves, and who are not, in fact, ignored by the system. They never get into the system in the first place- a system that is not built to cope with the mind-blowing poverty that arises from its excrement. The system can’t acknowledge it and justify itself. At the risk of sounding like I think relatively-well-off white lady problems bear any resemblance to the horror of someone living on the outskirts of Kinshasa in a lean-to, Emma is just trying to get in to a society that can't acknowledge her and go on. She’s trying with all her might to buy into the fairy tales she’s been told (just like the revived, and growing belief in magic in some slums), and does whatever she has to do to get her hands on it, even if only for a little while. She saw that fairy tales are real (or so she thinks) at that ball that one time- she SAW it, mommy- and can’t handle the fact that they exist on this earth and she can’t be a part of it. And in case anyone finds her head-in-the-sand refusal to face the world overly childish or impossible to relate to: The endless line of irresponsible credit she takes out from the scam artist down the street in order to feed her fantasies about the way she believes her life should look has obvious immediate relevance to America in the pre-2008 financial crisis era. In some ways, the existential crisis Flaubert is trying to outline here: between a solidly practical, profit-and-advancement outlook on life and a sensibility that at least tries to aspire to something higher, even if it is unaffordable or impossible, is the distilled essence of the push and pull of American partisan politics. Monsieur Homais would have done very well on Wall Street. Emma can be read as being more American than French, really. Emma is a true believer. She doesn’t just want attention from men, or shiny things. I didn’t really believe that until the part where she tries to renounce the whole world for fervent religious devotion. Failing making it into her fairy tale, she wants to escape where she is- to somewhere else, anywhere else. By the end, I felt like I was suffocating right along with her. Virginia Woolf said that the “present participle is the devil” . Emma adds the present place, the present time, the present person you are with. She really is willing to try anything to escape. On her deathbed, as she pleaded to die, my heart was racing along with hers and the whole finale read like a blockbuster last action scene with explosives and severed limbs flying. I didn’t enjoy the journey I had with her, but I had made it and lived in tiny spaces with her, spaces that got ever smaller as the book wound down. Every chapter there was less and less light until she was curled up in a ball in solitary confinement with no hope of escape. In the Count of Monte Cristo, we root for the hero to get thrown over the side of a cliff in a body bag because it is his only hope of escape. How could we do less for poor Emma? She deserves her chance to make it to the place she always hoped for- even if priests and businessmen argue whether she got there over her corpse. If she can’t be buried in ‘blessed’ ground, well, at that point the priest’s God is just another man telling her she has to stay in the woods with the witch and her oven rather than try to find the path home, like she was always taught to do. Flaubert handles his prose deftly, precisely, and with a deceptively commonplace hand. He doesn’t try for smart metaphors and delicate similes, but rather has characters say what the mean in an effectively believable way that makes Emma a character who can impact the lives of real women. Parts of this novel are spine-tinglingly sordid, others wrench out your gut, most of it can be drearily, boringly, mind-numbingly quotidian, and every so often, a gem shines through that makes you turn around and look at someone you had thought you were done being interested in. In other words, it’s like last Wednesday. And the Tuesday before that. And today. And probably next Monday. The morning when you woke up vowing that today it was all going to be different, that afternoon when you just wanted to die, the evening when you forgot it all making dinner and laughing about that thing you saw on the internet.Flaubert can’t get it all, or say it all right, but he knows that. In fact, he’s willing to tell his readers that. But he does it in such a way that you just want to punch him in the face like you do that size 0 model who complains that she’s too fat:“Whereas the truth is that fullness of soul can sometimes overflow in utter vapidity of language, for none of us can ever express the exact measure of his needs or his thoughts or his sorrows; and human speech is like a cracked kettle on which we tap crude rhythms for bears to dance to, while we long to make music that will melt the stars.”Aw, come on, Gustave. Why do you want to make those of us with irrevocably not-size-0 rears, who can’t get from Q to R, cry? Yet, even your complaining makes me want to hug you.I guess what I am saying is why are you so awesome, Monsieur Flaubert?
4409251251	welcome to...MADAME BOVUARY!you know what time it is — it's a title / month pun, i'm picking up an ill-advised classic, and i'm going to be as attention seeking about it as possible. IT'S ANOTHER PROJECT LONG CLASSIC INSTALLMENT.except this time i'm doing it at the end of one month into the start of another, the book is not that long, and i'm kind of proud of the terrible pun. because it works with both months. inasmuch as it works with anything.let's get into it!PART 1, CHAPTER 1i primarily bought this book because i'm addicted to penguin clothbound classics, and secondarily bought it because the description is "Emma is beautiful and bored" and that's my life story.this book is not long, but there are 35 chapters and i'm trying to be More Chill about my reading, so a chapter a day it is!PART 1, CHAPTER 2so far, so weird.PART 1, CHAPTER 3thus far it's been a lot of exposition-y chapters, which makes sense, but they are so oddly written as to be more confusing than enlightening. whatever! onto the actual story.PART 1, CHAPTER 4wedding scene!!!! this sounded fun. good chapter. i approve.i don't have a lot to say about this book thus far, if you couldn't tell.PART 1, CHAPTER 5i do actually love the description in this. so pretty and clear.PART 1, CHAPTER 6hello and welcome to our first catch-up day. a three-chapter situation. everyone say thank you, gustave for making these chapters so short.emma is addicted to novels...once again she is just like me fr.PART 1, CHAPTER 7in a twist that will surprise absolutely no one, i like the unlikable pretty protagonist who hates her life and charms everyone.PART 1, CHAPTER 8i do feel bad for charles, though.PART 1, CHAPTER 9she's sooooo difficult...i stanPART 2, CHAPTER 1a fun lil Get To Know The Villagers chapter.PART 2, CHAPTER 2suddenly, just as i settled into the comfort of the idea that this would be a Description Book, here we are in Dialogue City. what a change!PART 2, CHAPTER 3i really do feel like classics will cover the local politics of a small village for 75 pages, and marriage / birth / death are fully covered in a paragraph or two.PART 2, CHAPTER 4happy three chapter day to all who celebrate.my copy of this is used (part of my How To Afford Collecting Penguin Clothbounds strategy) and there has been nary a mark inside until now. the last line of this chapter is underlined, and i agree: it rules.PART 2, CHAPTER 5accidentally got enraptured and forgot to write about individual chapters. this is the REAL problem with three chapter days.PART 2, CHAPTER 6yearning!!!PART 2, CHAPTER 7emma has to stop reading novels??? good god...a fate worse than death....PART 2, CHAPTER 8something fun that this chapter did is make me feel the same existential boredom, but for the sweet relief of bantery dialogue, that our dear emma suffers from every day. because it was very boring.CONTROVERSY ARRIVES.PART 2, CHAPTER 9 a recipe for disaster is unfolding before us.PART 2, CHAPTER 10emma, girl...stand up...PART 2, CHAPTER 11HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!let's spend it reading four chapters of existential ennui. and apparently extensive descriptions of club foot.PART 2, CHAPTER 12i do love that being a hater and a trickster is making emma turn hot again. that's my entire skincare routine and life philosophy summed up. PART 2, CHAPTER 13you hate to see a man win a situation...women are so much better at deception and deviousness...it looks odd on a man.PART 2, CHAPTER 142-14 on 2/14...pretty cute.there is no romantic connection or eternal tie quite like the correlation between something bad happening and life-altering illness in classic books. if you had a bad day as a protagonist in 1809...welcome to a life of Consumption.PART 2, CHAPTER 15emma has a ROSTER. what an achievement.PART 3, CHAPTER 1there is a 5 chapter day in my future...and today is not that day.i do love the drama of it all. everything emma does seems to be for maximum theatricality and that is a life's purpose i can get behind.PART 3, CHAPTER 2hi mtv and welcome to my attempt at a catch-up day.honestly i would love to be charles bovary. no thoughts, head empty, zero suspicions, getting through life on vibes alone.PART 3, CHAPTER 3it's remarkable — this book has no tension at all. one of the most tense things in the world is happening (repeated marital affairs! will someone discover it? will they be able to love openly? none of these questions come to mind) and it's like. no stakes. crazy. this chapter appears to be attempting a cliffhanger and the crowd went silent.PART 3, CHAPTER 4these chapters are so wonderfully short. it's like they were written with me being days behind on a made-up project in mind.PART 3, CHAPTER 5"From that moment her existence was but one long tissue of lies, in which she enveloped her love as in veils to hide it. It was a want, a mania, a pleasure carried to such an extent that if she said she had the day before walked on the right side of a road, one might know she had taken the left." this duplicitous little devil...i love her.PART 3, CHAPTER 6too much math in the last chapter. debt is boring. give me something more interesting.jinxed myself. this was even longer and even mathier.PART 3, CHAPTER 7super jarring to have a passage of dialogue here from two women just...witnessing emma emma-ing it up. you forget how Improper all this sh*t is until suddenly some lady is like "whip her in the streets."PART 3, CHAPTER 8WHAT.but we have three chapters left!PART 3, CHAPTER 9who cares anymore...what's even the point...if i weren't so goddamn close to finishing this i'd take a day off and catch up later...this is the coolest charles has ever been. low bar, but still.PART 3, CHAPTER 10you hate to see an adult mom / overly fond son duo...PART 3, CHAPTER 11well, today is the final day and i have literally no idea what i think about this book, so...pretty high stakes for this single chapter here.OVERALLgenerally, i think if you have the free time, the patience, and the refined taste, you can skip this completely, go for anna karenina, and pretend you read both.but if you're pressed for time or into melodrama, this one is good too.rating: 3.5
6931315814	Madame Bovary is a gorgeous comedy of manners… The narration is flowery and almost baroque… There is no sympathy for the characters… The snide style of the novel is unique.Gustave Flaubert begins from afar… From the school years of Charles Bovary – the future doctor and subsequent husband of Emma Bovary… Being already married one night he visits a patient and there he meets his daughter…Charles was surprised by the whiteness of her fingernails. They were glossy, delicate at the tips, more carefully cleaned than Dieppe ivories, and filed into almond shapes. Yet her hand was not beautiful, not pale enough, perhaps, and a little dry at the knuckles; it was also too long and without soft inflections in its contours. What was beautiful about her was her eyes: although they were brown, they seemed black because of the lashes, and her gaze fell upon you openly, with a bold candor.Nonetheless some mysterious spark flies between them… And his destiny chooses to set him free… So there is a new marriage…Emma, however, would have liked to be married at midnight, by torchlight; but Père Rouault found the idea incomprehensible. So there was a wedding celebration to which forty-three people came, during which they remained at table for sixteen hours, which started up again the next day and carried over a little into the days that followed.Charles is absolutely happy… But to Emma he is just a way station…She loved the sea only for its storms, and greenery only when it grew up here and there among ruins. She needed to derive from things a sort of personal gain; and she rejected as useless everything that did not contribute to the immediate gratification of her heart, – being by temperament more sentimental than artistic, in search of emotions and not landscapes.They relocate to another town… Her daughter is born… Their life goes smoothly… But she wants more… She wants to run away from everyday routine…But she was filled with desires, with rage, with hatred. That dress with its straight folds concealed a heart in turmoil, and those reticent lips said nothing about its torment.Even the most innocent romantic dreams may lead one far astray.
2621717678	”Before her marriage, she had believed that what she was experiencing was love; but since the happiness that should have resulted from that love had not come, she thought she must have been mistaken. And Emma tried to find out just what was meant, in life, by the words bliss, passion, and intoxication, which had seemed so beautiful to her in books.” Mia Wasikowska plays Madame Bovary in the 2015 movie.Before she is Madame Bovary, Emma is keeping house for her father on a remote farm. I wonder what would have happened to her if Doctor Charles Bovary had not been summoned to set her father’s broken leg? It is inconceivable to think of her married to a farmer or a tradesman or being swept away by a travelling peddler. She is beautiful enough to be a duchess or a marquise, a pretty bobble for the dance floor, or an elegant adornment for the dinner table, and certainly, the perfect fine drapery for a night at the theatre. Charles just expects her to be a wife. A woman to manage his household. A woman to uplift him and give him confidence to keep trying to better himself. He is successful in a dull and conservative way, and whenever he tries to raise himself up further, perhaps in an attempt to win the respect of his pretty wife, he is met with utter failure. There is nothing romantic about him. He is steady and completely devoted to her. Whenever he tries to express grand passions, somehow these attempts lack the ability to ignite the flames of desire or evoke the effervescent emotions that her novels tell her are the indications of true love. Her frustrations, once contained in a heavy ball beneath her heart, begin to unravel like many hissing snakes, and her docile nature becomes viperous. ”She no longer hid her scorn for anything, or anyone, and she would sometimes express singular opinions, condemning what was generally approved, and commending perverse or immoral things: which made her husband stare at her wide-eyed.” Other men desire her, even Charles’s father, who is a retired army officer and a man of the world, who will take any opportunity to pull her to him in a deserted hallway or tug her into a dark alcove for a reasonably platonic cuddle. Men can sense her dissatisfaction behind the cute dimple of her smile and the twinkling stars in her eyes. She is ripe for the plucking. Being a man well experienced with the betraying beguilement of beauty, I would like to think that I would be impervious to her charms. I would only have to clutch the slenderness of my wallet to realize that a woman of her insatiable need for material things would only lead me to disaster and ruin. Of course, there is this: ”And she was ravishing to look at, a tear trembling in her eye like water from a rainstorm in the blue chalice of a flower.” Most men will meet many beautiful women in their lifetimes, but of course, the crux of the matter with a woman like Madame Bovary is knowing that with a little effort she can be yours...at least for a time. Two men are led into catastrophic affairs with Emma. These indiscretions prove even more disastrous for her. ”There are souls who endure endless torment? They are driven now to dream, not to take action, to experience the purest passions, then the most extreme joys, and so they hurl themselves into every sort of fantasy, every sort of folly.” Recklessness can prove too exhilarating, even intoxicating, but rarely does it lead to long term happiness. The other problem that Madame Bovary has is a lack of funds. Her husband makes a good living, but he can not even begin to keep up with her need to possess fine things, or to conduct a lifestyle better suited to an aristocratic pocketbook. This is a theme of particular interest to Gustave Flaubert. In fact, he wrote a whole book called Dictionary of Accepted Ideas, condemning the very worst detrimental aspects of having too much money and not enough curiosity. ”What he despised, really, was a certain type of bourgeois attitude. It included traits such as intellectual and spiritual superficiality, raw ambition, shallow culture, a love of material things, greed, and above all a mindless parroting of sentiments and beliefs.” An immoral, grubbing moneylender sinks his talons into Emma’s soft pale skin like a blood sucking leech. He takes advantage of her naivete concerning the truth worth of hard currency and plays upon her covetous nature for decadent things. She is so close, with an extended line of credit, to living a life of frivolous fun, buoyed by a series of passionate, heart fluttering affairs, that she can almost see it, almost taste it, and almost believe she can obtain the life she has only read about. As Vladimir Nabokov says, ”The ironic and the pathetic are beautifully intertwined.” Emma’s mother-in-law believes the books she has been reading are the reason for the faults in her daughter-in-law’s character. ”Wouldn’t one have the right to alert the police if, despite this, the bookseller persisted in his business as purveyor of poison?” I have to admit I laughed out loud. As much as booksellers would like to claim to have diabolical control over readers, we have to defer to the writers. In fact, Flaubert had to defend himself in court for charges of immorality regarding the publication of Madame Bovary. Nothing drives book sales like a court of law trying to deem a book too scandalous for people to be trusted to read it. To me, this book encourages morality and fiscal responsibility. I don’t see how, given the tragic nature of the book, someone would read this book and want to emulate Madame Bovary. However, I do understand the feeling that some women have of being trapped in a cage, even if it is a gilded one. The responsibilities of life can make one feel the itch to be reckless, unfettered, and pine for romantic assignations that will awaken youthful desires. Maybe this book is more of a how-to manual on how not to conduct oneself with torrid affairs and fiscal carelessness. This novel is considered the first example of realistic fiction. This translation is 311 pages long. Flaubert had over 4500 pages of rough drafts that this relatively slender volume emerged from. The lyrical nature of the writing attests to the stringent diligence that Flaubert insisted upon to craft each page of this novel. I couldn’t help, of course, but think of Anna Karenina as I read this book. I read and reviewed Tolstoy’s masterpiece earlier this year. It is easy to condemn both of these women, but who among us has not had destructive desires which we have either indulged in or at least coveted? Both women are fully drawn characters, completely exposed to our critical judging eye, and at the end of the day, deserving of our pity. Either woman would have made a wonderful heroine for a Shakespearean drama. I can hear the gasps from a 17th century audience. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.comI also have a Facebook blogger page at:https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten
1802223836	کتاب سوزیمن یک وقتی توی گوگل پلاس، مجموعه پست هایی میذاشتم با تگ #کتاب_سوزی، و هر چی از نویسنده ها و فلاسفه در نفی کتابخوانی پیدا می کردم ذیل این تگ منتشر می کردم. عده ای پای پست ها علیه این نگرش اعتراض می کردن و ازم می پرسیدن: مقصودم از انتشار این پست ها چیه؟ چرا کتابخوانی رو مذمت می کنم؟و من هر بار جواب متفاوتی می دادم. چون هر کدوم از نویسندگان و فلاسفه هم دلیل متفاوتی برای نفی کتاب داشتن. یکی می گفت: کتاب نخونید، بلکه به جاش خودتون مستقل بیندیشید. کتاب خوندن موجب میشه در اندیشیدن وابسته بار بیاید.یکی می گفت: کتاب نخونید، بلکه به جاش زندگی کنید. در خیالات رنگارنگ داستان نویسان و استدلال های پر پیچ و خم فلاسفه گم نشید، زندگی واقعی این ها نیست، زندگی واقعی اون بیرونه.یکی دانش بدون بینش عمیق رو نفی می کرد، یکی از کتاب بد خوندن ایراد می گرفت، و یکی به تمام وقت کتاب خوندن می تاخت. چرا این ها رو گفتم؟اگه بخوام مضمون رمان مادام بوواری رو در یک کلمه خلاصه کنم، "کتابسوزی" از بهترین گزینه هاست. زنی که نوجوانی ش رو با خیالات و رؤیاهای رمانتیک کتاب ها و قصه ها پر کرده، و حال با سیلی واقعیت رو به رو شده: زندگی روزمره، با شوهری که مثل تمام آدم ها کمی شریفه و کمی سخت کوش و کمی بی دست و پا، با درآمدی متوسط، بدون زرق و برق های آن چنانی، بدون عشق های آن چنانی، بدون ماجراهای آن چنانی. اما مادام بوواری نمی خواد این ها رو بپذیره، نمی خواد قبول کنه که کتاب هاش و قصرهای جادوییش فقط سرابی از زندگی واقعی بوده ن، در نتیجه، به دنبال دست یافتن به ماه توی مرداب، پیوسته بیشتر فرو میره و فرو میره و فرو میره.آلن دوباتن (نویسنده تسلی بخشی های فلسفه و کتب دیگر) مقاله ای حول مادام بوواری نوشته که خوندنش رو توصیه می کنم. مخصوصاً برای ما که خودمون رو عضو دایره کتابخونا می شمریم، ضروریه که کتابخوانی «انتقادی» رو یاد بگیریم. منظورم از کتابخوانی «انتقادی» اینه که مدام از ذهن خودمون و آموخته‌های خودمون فاصله بگیریم و حلاجیشون کنیم و به بوتۀ نقد بذاریمشون.لینک مقاله آلن دوباتنمادام بوواری و آنا کارنینامادام بوواری به سال ۱۸۵۶ نوشته شده، و آنا کارنینا به سال ۱۸۷۷. شباهت زیاد ایده ها به هم (view spoiler)[(زنی که خسته از زندگی زناشویی، به آغوش عاشقان دیگر پناه می بره اما به زودی از اون ها هم سرخورده میشه، و در نهایت خودکشی می کنه) (hide spoiler)] و قضاوت منفی دو نویسنده نسبت به شخصیت زن قصه هاشون، آدم رو مشکوک می کنه که نکنه تولستوی حال و هوای کلی اثرش رو از فلوبر گرفته باشه. البته این از ارزش آنا کارنینا کم نمی کنه، روانشناسی و شخصیت پردازی قدرتمند تولستوی دوست داشتنی، داستان های فرعی ش، اخلاقیات و فلسفه ای که در صفحه صفحه کتابش جا داده، باعث میشه که اگه قرار بر انتخاب بین یکی از دو رمان باشه، من بدون معطلی آنا کارنینای شکوهمند رو انتخاب کنم.
1603463340	مائة جلدة..و مائة دينار ذهبي هذا هو تقييمي.. بضمير مستريح لجوستاف فلوبير ومدام "زلطة " الشهيرة ببوفاريالدنانير مكافاة على حذقه ومهارته في رسم لوحات ادبية لا تصدق..و الجلدات او الضربات ..لانه يصرف ذكاءه في ما لا يفيد لو كان فلوبير يحيا بيننا اليوم لكان طبيبا نفسيا بارعا يتم الحجز عنده قبلها بستة اشهر..انظروا للاقتباس على لسان بوفاري ا"كان الكذب ضرورة بل هواية..بل لذة يحلو المضي فيها الى درجة انها اذا قالت انها سارت على جانب الطريق الايمن فتاكد انها كانت على الجانب الايسر )"نعم هناك بشر على هذه الشاكلة..و كيف سنتعرف على خلجات نفوس الحمقى و ذوي النفوس الدنيئة؟؟ نعاشرهم او نقرا عنهم لنشعر ان الادباء وهبوا عيونا غير عيونننا..هذه رواية ضد الروايات.. تؤكد طوال الوقت على الاثر السيء للروايات على عقول ونفوس السيدات..نعم هكذا أكد فلوبير على لسان عدة شخصيات في الرواية..وللحق اذا كانت الرواية من عينه بوفاري..فنعم والف نعمتقييمي بالتفصيل:الاسلوب والوصف:5نجوم..اتقان شخصية البطلة 5 نجوم..باقي الشخصيات 2نجمة..الحبكة :2نجمة...القابلية للقراءة 3 نجومالهدف او الرسالة:صفرالنهاية:صيييييفر.. وتحت الصفرانا ام مسلمة..في العقد الرابع وذات ثقافة اجنبية..و تقييمي خاضع لهذه المعايير شئت ام ابيت لي اعتراضيين جوهريين على مدام بوفاري..الاول كأم..اقوى الغرائز لدى المرأة على الاطلاق هي "الامومة" هل تساءلت يوما لماذا يوجد عقاب حازم للزنا وللاب الذي يضيع من يعول.. ولكن لا يوجد احكام حازمة ضد اللام المهملة ...لان هذا منافي للطبيعة و ما جُبلت عليه الامبوفاري كانت ام بشعة والأسوأ على مستوى الأدب العالمي ..حتى عندما رغبت في زيارة ابنتها المبعدة عند المرضعة لاول مرة..اصطحبت حبيبهابل و في المشهد الادبي الاكثر ازعاجا لي ..نراها تلكزها بعنف عندما تقترب منها..فتقع الرضيعة ذات العام الواحد ويشق خدها!! لان المدام منزعجة من عشيقهاو هكذا فازت من الصديق حسام عادل بلقب مدام زلطةا كم يوجد من هذه العينة في العالم؟واحدة بين كل الفين أم؟ ..اذن ما الهدف من التعمق في مشاعرها التافهة لأكثر من 400صفحة؟ سبق وقلت ا ن بوفاري مثال لمرض اضطراب ثنائي القطب و هو مرض مميز للشخصية الادمانية..تفتنك ..تسحرك..في البداية ثم تقع فريسة لكل مساوؤها المعروفة..وهي الفريسة المفضلة للنصابين ودائما تجد ساذج يتحمل مسؤلياتها...بوفاري مدمنة للجنس ..و هو المرض الاقل تعاطفا في العالم..زوجها منحها كل ما تبغيه امراة في الوجود..و يكفي انه يحبها بجنون طوال 7 سنوات عجفاء هي عمر هذا البلاء"الزواج"و لكن وجدت كل القطط الفاطسانة فيه لتخونه مرارا..بل و تضيع ماله و توقعه في ديون اسطورية..و عندما تقترب ابنتها منها يقول ابيها: ابتعدي انت تعلمين ان والدتك لا تحب ان نزعجها! !!االسؤال مرة اخرى: كم يوجد من بوفاري في العالم ؟؟.وهل يستحب عرض نموذج شديد الاستثنائية بين النساء..قد يكون موجود بنسبة 10%من الرجال.. اذن المطلوب مني كام وزوجة عندما اتعرض لكل هذا التبجح و التبطر بينما اعاني انا من مشااااكل مادية ومعنوية حقيقية وواقعية..المفروض اقول انا ملاك كدة .. و لماذا اتحمل كل هذا..؟ هناك حرق قادم للاحداثو عندما تاتي نهايتها هزيلة ..فلا يفتضح امرها....بل تقرر الخلاص من حياتها في نفس اليوم الذي سيباع فيه اثاثها في المزاد..و هكذا تحقق الجملة الشهيرة"عاش خاين ومات كافر" بل و زوجها بعد معرفته بأنها سبب إفلاسه .بل وتشريد ابنته.. و بخيانتها بعد وفاتها بعامين يظل يحبها بل يموت حبا(او جوعا )!!هنا سئمت انا حياتي كلها حقاوهنا ياتي اعتراضي الثاني: هناك سخرية مستترة من الإيمان عموما ...فالخطيئة الثانية تبدا في الكاتدرائية ..و الشخصيات المؤمنة يتم اقصائها وتهميشها....وشخصية الصيدلي الملحد من اخبث الشخصيات الادبية..و هو الشخصية الوحيدة التي فازت بكل شيء في انتصار كامل غير مبرر للشرلقد احترت حقا في تقييم الرواية فهناك روايات تخرج منها باحساس بغيض يملاك ضيقا و حقدا. هل هناك رسالة خفية ؟ لم افهمها..و اعتذر عن الاسهاب الشديد
1700152339	My 3rd reading of this masterpiece written with irony and finesse. The eternal story of Emma Bovary and her broken dreams is heartbreaking every time.The narration is actually quite modern in that the perspective changes quite often from a mysterious first person in the beginning (a schoolmate of Charles Bovary?) to the interior monologues of Charles, Emma, Léon, and Rodolphe. The descriptions of the various locations in the book are always surprising with tiny references to the principle characters. It may surprise you to know that this book, which is essentially a tragedy, also is full of humor and sarcasm. For example, when Léon and Emma have a rendez-vous in the Cathedral of Rouen, the Swiss guard who tries to give them a tour of the church while Léon is freaking out and wants to get out of there while Emma pretends to be interested because she is not quite sold on the seduction is pure genius. In a similar, if more romantic vein, the whispered conversation of Rodolphe and Emma in the lodge as the vice-Prefect gives the world's most boring speech (his boss couldn't be bothered to come) was extraordinary. Every word in Flaubert is measured and perfectly weighted to each situation, the original French is absolutely splendid - whether he is describing the pretentious conversation of M. Homais or the various season and their impact on the moods of the characters and tone of the novel. The only criticism that I can bring is that the denouement is a bit long - that being said, there is another fantastic ironic payoff in the last sentence.This book from 1856 is of course a product of the Romantic period in culture but it surpasses most of its contemporaries by its precise psychology - both of men and women, its irony, its subtle criticism of the "petit bourgeois" and French society, and the meticulous observation of detail. Even 161 years later, it remains a monument of literature and a summit of free expression (Flaubert was pursued in court and beat the censors.)
1961755384	الرواية تنتمي الى المدرسةً الواقعية والتي بدأت في الظهور في بداية القرن التاسع عشر.مدام بوفاري التي اصابت نفسها وعائلتها بالخراب بسبب نفسها الشهوانية والتي ام تستطع السيطرة على نفسها والحفاظ على شرف زوجها رغم الحب الذي يكنه لها ومركزه المرموق في المجتمع الريفي كطبيب رغم عدم تقدمه في هذه المهنة بسبب تعليمه المتقطع والذي فرضته عليه أمه.دعوة الى حفلة من المجتمع الراقي (الأرستقراطي) يقلب كيانها بعد حفلة راقصة شاهدت فيها الشباب والرجال يرقصون ويمرحون. عادت ولَم يعد شيئا يعجبها لا بيتها ولا حياتها ولا زوجها.سقطت في بئر الخيانة والتستر على هذه الأفعال مستغلة طيبة زوجها الذي احبها وحاول بكل استطاعته انزيرضيها حيث ترك مدينته وزبائنه الكثر لينتقل الى الريف.لكن هذه الخيانة كانت تسير بما تشتهي حتى وقعت في الدين وذلك من اجل تغطية رحلاتها ومبيتها في الفنادق.كان بامكانها ان تنهي المأساة باعتذار لزوجها ولكن ابت لنفسها هذه المذلة وتنهي الرواية بطريقة مأساوية وأثرت على حياة روجها وطفلتها التي كانت الخاسر الأكبر في النهاية.أحب ان أقول ان الرواية رغم ما فيها من خيانة فلن تجد فيها كلمة واحدة تخدش الحياء العام. والمؤلف توسع في وصف المباني والحدائق والأجواء والبساتين حتى تصل الى مرحلة الملل بعض الشيء رغم ان احداث الرواية بطيئة جدا.في نهاية الرواية محاضر للمحاكمة التي أقيمت المؤلف والناشر كون الرواية في ذلك العصر كانت مخالفة للأسلوب والمنهج السائد.
4324552805	When I was last at Cambridge Public Library, I saw a gentleman reading this book, and I so desperately wanted to talk to him. Instead, I secretly took a picture of the only other person who reads Penguin Classics in public because yes, I am an introverted, socially awkward coward.Recently, this article popped up on my phone: Flaubert Versus the World.The article’s author teaches Madame Bovary at a London university, and his students found it boring, hated it, and hated the main character, Emma. They said, “that woman had everything” and found her completely unsympathetic.So let’s talk…..Madame Bovary was published in 1857, and it was set in France.Emma Rouault grows up in a convent, and her mother dies. One day, she meets Charles Bovary, a doctor, who ends up marrying her, ripping her away from her entire network. Emma (now Madame Bovary) is miserable. Her sole companion, a greyhound named Djali runs away. Emma’s life is devoid of meaning. Her childrearing and domestic duties are outsourced to her staff. Without a vocation or community, Emma’s days are empty.As if that isn’t bad enough, Emma’s mother-in-law hates her. Instead of kindness and compassion, her mother-in-law lambastes her spending rather than offering any meaningful advice or connection. The poor dear is alone all day, unable to even talk to her maid as socializing with the help wouldn’t be proper according to the rules of society. She doesn’t have email or the telephone to call friends. The only person who consistently shows up for her is Monsieur Lheureux, the draper, who wants to sell various goods.In desperation, Emma attempts to fill the aching loneliness. She embraces religion, but the clergy can’t be bothered. The townspeople also don’t seem to be bursting with Christian charity or love. Yes, Emma engages in retail therapy (but let the person who has not ordered from Amazon cast the first stone), and she has various love affairs.Chuckie…I mean Charles, her husband, says how much he loves her. But Chuckie either 1) is blind to her misery or 2) doesn’t know her at all. He couldn’t be bothered to have an honest conversation about what they could afford. He gripes about fate….puh leeze, Chuckles!Emma certainly doesn’t “have everything.” She lacks a supportive network, a true friend, someone who sees her as she truly is, to be known.That being said, Flaubert is awful, arrogant, and pompous. He startingly insisted that he could create Emma Bovary because he knew her from the inside out—“Madame Bovary is myself—drawn from life.”Okay, Captain Cringe.The book is slow, S-L-O-W, with far too many pointless descriptions. In addition to reeking of ignorant haughtiness, Flaubert decided to experiment with not using quotation marks when a character speaks. This did not enhance the text. And despite Flaubert’s boasts, he doesn’t write Emma convincingly.He doesn’t mention the persistent dark shadow of loneliness following Emma, that she is lost in the world without a compass, nothing to illuminate her path forward. People don’t find Emma sympathetic because Flaubert didn’t write her well. Such a shame!And now for the twist ending!The 2010 Lydia Davis translation was recommended by James Mustich in 1,00 Books to Read Before You Die. Did I listen? No.My version was translated by Geoffrey Wall.Big deal. Who cares? Can’t you just drop a text into Google Translate?Indulge me for a moment, and let’s look at one of the most famous lines in history from The Great Gatsby: “It was an extraordinary gift for hope, a romantic readiness such as I have never found in any other person and which is not likely I shall ever find again.”But that wasn’t the original line Fitzgerald wrote: “It was an extraordinary aliveness to life, an alert vitality such as I have never found in any human person and which it is not likely I shall ever find again.”The original isn’t as strong; it is completely forgettable. In part, it is because the famous line makes use of alliteration, “romantic readiness.” This lyrical line stirs the soul. Good translation requires skill beyond Google Translate—the soul is not a robot.Hesitating to extend the benefit of the doubt to Flaubert, perhaps his prose is better in French, and his artistic brilliance is victim to a bad translation.As is, this is a repulsive, boring work written by a bizarre, egotist who doesn’t live up to his own hype.The Green Light at the End of the Dock (How much I spent):Softcover Text (Penguin Classics version)- $11.28 from Blackwell'sAudiobook – 1 Audible Credit (Audible Premium Plus Annual – 24 Credits Membership Plan $229.50 or roughly $9.56 per credit)2025 Reading ScheduleJan A Town Like AliceFeb BirdsongMar Captain Corelli's Mandolin - Louis De BerniereApr War and PeaceMay The Woman in WhiteJun AtonementJul The Shadow of the WindAug Jude the ObscureSep UlyssesOct Vanity FairNov A Fine BalanceDec GerminalConnect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Insta My Bookstore at Pango
2808033541	"Like a sailor in distress, she would gaze out over the solitude of her life with desperate eyes, seeking some white sail in the mists of the far-off horizon." It's always difficult to properly appraise a book when one hasn't read it in the language in which it was written. My edition was translated by Geoffrey Wall, who preserved Flaubert's distinctive punctuation, italicisation and paragraphing habits. Though the overuse of exclamation marks is discouraged by modern-day publishers, Flaubert scatters them like seed. I'm all for it, as it added to the vibrancy of his writing.I read this classic at a leisurely pace, one chapter at a time, in between newfangled reads. I carefully jotted down notes and some well-chosen passages, intending to reproduce them here. Sadly, I unintentionally left my humidity-corrugated notepad by a pool in Thailand! : (Emma (Madame Bovary), along with Lady Chatterley and Anna Karenina, is in the running for literature's most famous adulteress. And in that respect, she doesn't disappoint. Defying convention, Flaubert deliberately chose to make his bourgeois femme fatale unlikeable, which I saw as a good thing: it makes her character believable; it makes her seem modern, (Flaubert would cast her as an influencer if he could come back to life) and it shows the extent to which the author was unfettered by tradition. Emma "Drama Queen" Bovary, whose untamed heart rules her head, is trapped in a boring, frigid marriage and, without a care in the world, looks for love and lust elsewhere. In many ways, she behaves like a sex-hungry man who can’t keep it in his pants, except she’s living in patriarchal France in the 1800s! Of course, when a literary character plays with fire, you just know they're gonna get burnt!Yes, Emma is shallow and selfish and wants what she can't have but, because she is a flawed human being wholly driven by sentimentality, I somehow sympathised with her. Translations notwithstanding, I really enjoyed Flaubert's anomalous writing style and luxuriant prose but, for me, this isn't the page-turner that Anna Karenina is.
4890585311	[Revised 3/21/23]Ah, Madame Bovary. Isn't that the one where she has an affair and kills herself by jumping in front of a train? No, that's one by Tolstoy. But I'm thinking of adding a new Goodreads shelf: 'Old classics I thought surely I had read years ago, but hadn't.'There are thousands of reviews so I'll keep this short. Our two main characters are remarkably unlikable. Emma marries a divorced small-town doctor who's a widower. Isn't there a French expression: "How can a woman love a man who adores her?” Charles acts like a country bumpkin. He adores her and he’s such a cuckold that he is an enabler. If he found her in bed with another man, Emma would say “I was just showing Armande how comfortable our mattress is, and we took our clothes off because it was so hot.” And he would believe her.The introduction tells us that Flaubert wrote in a letter “Women are taught to lie shamelessly. An apprenticeship that lasts all their lives.” So he created Emma to prove his point. Emma’s picture could appear in an illustrated dictionary under ‘self-centeredness.’ (We’ll put her husband, Charles’ picture, in under ‘cuckold.’) The biggest red flag for me about Emma is her lack of interest in, dislike of, and even disgust with her baby daughter. She's forever pushing her away and sending her off to her nurse. Her extravagance creates financial problems that she seems not only unconcerned with but unaware of. That extravagance drives the novel to its tragic end.If you are thinking of reading it, here are a couple of passages that I liked and that illustrate the style of writing. This one is about an old roadside inn: “…a good old house, with worm-eaten balconies that creak in the wind on winter nights, always full of people, noise, and feeding, whose black tables are sticky with coffee and brandy, the thick windows made yellow by the flies, the damp napkins stained with cheap wine, and that always smells of the village, like plowboys dressed in Sunday clothes, has a cafe on the street, and toward the countryside a kitchen-garden.” Here's a passage when Madame B and a future lover are beginning to feel attracted to each other: “Had they nothing else to say to one another? Yet their eyes were full of more serious speech, and while they forced themselves to find trivial phrases, they felt the same languor stealing over them both. It was the whisper of the soul, deep, continuous, dominating that of their voices. Surprised with wonder at this strange sweetness, they did not think of speaking of the sensation or of seeking its cause. Coming joys, like tropical shores, thrown over the immensity before them their inborn softness, an odorous wind, and we are lulled by this intoxication without a thought of the horizon that we do not even know.”It's a good story and excellent writing, although my paperback edition by Harper Collins has problems. It doesn't name the translator, so it must be an old translation where the copyright expired. I know that Flaubert was a writer known for finding le mot juste. The translator, I think, tried to match that exactness of word usage in English with some fairly obscure English words: diligence (in the sense of a carriage), colza (rapeseed), bistoury (scalpel), faubourg (suburb). The back of the book gives us a glossary that has none of the obscure words I had to look up, but instead defines for us words like ruffian, trivet, penury and gruel! This is what happens when you turn over the glossary task to your graduate student intern and no one else looks over the finished product. BTW, when is GR going to get around to letting reviewers use italics without having to insert formatting marks? A great novel and good writing. Indeed a classic. The sex, tame by modern standards, pushed the envelope when published in 1856, and the author was charged with obscenity. It’s a fascinating blend of romance and realism. Flaubert (1821-1880) was a pioneer in French literary realism. Top photo of Emma from a 2014 20th Century Fox movie at befrois.com French inn from messynessychic.com The author on a French stamp from postbeeld.com
2701570431	Madame Bovary, c’est qui ? Bovary, c’est d’abord le nom de Charles, le personnage qui ouvre et clôt le roman, si bien qu’on pourrait presque affirmer que c’est lui le héros, petit médecin de campagne, gentil mais sans talent, mari cocu mais pas jaloux. Un Bovary un peu bovin, en somme. Et Madame Bovary, c’est plusieurs personnages à la fois : Madame Bovary mère, la marâtre qui ne supporte pas que son fils appartienne à une autre ; Héloïse Dubuc, la première femme de Charles, dont les pieds au fond du lit sont froids comme des glaçons ; c’est potentiellement aussi la petite Berthe, la fille de Charles, qui finira orpheline dans une filature de coton. Mais c’est surtout Emma.Emma est jolie comme un cœur et fait tourner la tête des hommes autour d’elle. Elle, cependant, s’ennuie ferme avec son petit mari médecin au fin fond de son trou normand avec toujours les mêmes insupportables voisins : Homais (Emma inversé), le pharmacien prétentieux, scientiste et anticlérical ; l’abbé Bournisien, « médecin des âmes », d’une sottise à faire pleurer la sainte vierge ; le maire Tuvache (un autre bovin) et bien d’autres encore. Bref, dans tout ce tas d’imbéciles, il n’y en a pas un pour rattraper les autres. Alors Emma, don Quichotte normande, lit des romans pour échapper à la mesquinerie ambiante et à la déprime – on la comprend ! Elle lit Walter Scott et Lamartine, des livres d’aventure et des romans pieux ou à l’eau de rose, Jane Austen, peut-être – en poussant un peu le bouchon, elle lit les équivalents de Barbara Cartland au XXème siècle ou de Colleen Hoover en ce premier quart du XXIème. (Elle lit tellement qu’elle mourra en vomissant de l’encre.)Alors quand vient à passer quelque « beau gosse » rêveur (Léon) ou un « bad boy » ombrageux (Rodolphe), évidemment, Emma succombe à la volupté – bon, on peut encore la comprendre... Et quand vient à passer quelque vendeur de fringues de marques et autres bagatelles, elle succombe encore et dépense généreusement les économies de son petit mari le médecin – on la comprend, mais, il faut bien l’avouer, de moins en moins. Bref, toutes ces histoires d’adultère petit-bourgeois et de dettes impossibles à payer semblent assez triviales et par moment franchement dégoutantes, « cette couleur de moisissure d’existence de cloporte », comme aurait dit l’auteur lui-même.Si ce n’est que, en matière d’auteur, nous sommes entre les mains de Gustave Flaubert, le père du roman moderne, et cela change tout. D’abord parce que chaque page du livre ou presque est une prouesse stylistique : ironie mordante, descriptions pénétrantes et sonores, jeu étourdissant et souvent hilarant sur les perspectives, entremêlement des voix narratives, cut up et montage alterné. Ainsi, certaines scènes sont d’inoubliables morceaux de bravoure : les comices agricoles (II,8), la lettre de Rodolphe (II,13), la promenade a cheval qui finit en galanterie (II,9), la promenade en fiacre qui finit pareillement (III,1), l’opération du pied bot qui finit différemment (II,11), l’agonie d’Emma qui finit encore bien pire (III,8).En définitive, le monde n’est décidemment pas à la hauteur de l’absolu auquel Emma aspire. Madame Bovary, c’est l’héroïne romantique qui a soif de glamour, de lyrisme, de sublime, et qui retombe toujours dans la boue du prosaïque et du sordide. C’est l’albatros, l’ange qui tourne à la pute, la vierge à la triste figure, l’idéal qui rechute dans le spleen. En ce sens, oui sans doute, Madame Bovary, c’est Gustave Flaubert.Add: Il existe plusieurs adaptations cinématographiques du roman de Flaubert. L’une des plus remarquables est sans doute celle de Claude Chabrol. Le ton sec du cinéaste, maître de l’ellipse et du sous-entendu correspond à la pudeur du récit flaubertien, mais ne parvient toutefois pas à rendre les voltiges stylistiques de l’écrivain. En revanche, Isabelle Huppert est magnifique, tour à tour lumineuse et torturée.
4284449943	„Poți rezuma aceast roman ca povestea unui adulter provincial și, totuși, să dai dovadă, prin chiar acest rezumat, că n-ai priceput absolut nimic din Doamna Bovary” (Robert McCrum).În locul unei recenzii zadarnice, aș menționa rapid două lucruri. Mi se par mai utile decît recenzia. Primul e că doamna Bovary suferă de așa-zisa eroare quijotică. Cînd citește, Emma confundă ficțiunea cu realitatea. Ar dori să modifice realitatea în sensul ficțiunii, ar dori să-și trăiască viața ca într-o ficțiune. Aș lega această observație de un amănunt mai puțin observat de cititori. Nici eu nu l-am remarcat odinioară. Iată! După ultima întîlnire cu Rodolphe, Emma e disperată, a făcut datorii imense și nu găsește înțelegere la nici un creditor. Rodolphe o respinge. Rătăcește pe drumuri și, într-un tîrziu, iată Fatalitatea!, ajunge la prăvălia farmacistului Homais, intră pe coridorul unde se află ușa laboratorului cu medicamente și droguri și îi cere tînărului slujitor Justin (care o iubește în taină) să descuie ușa. Cheia are o etichetă pe care stă scris cuvîntul „Capharnaum” (poftim amănunt!). Merge la rafturile sprijinite de perete și întinde mîna după arsenic:„Luă borcanul albastru, smulse capacul, vîrî mîna înăuntru și, scoțînd-o plină de praf alb, începu să-l mănînce chiar din palmă”. Detaliul e teribil, cred că arată, printre multe altele, cît de tare se urăște pe sine femeia. Dar nu-i numai atît. Amănuntul și mai grozav abia urmează. Emma se întoarce acasă, se așază la birou, scrie în grabă un bilet, îl pune într-un plic, adaugă „data, ziua și ora”, apoi se întinde pe pat și începe să se observe:„Un gust iute pe care-l simțea în gură o trezi... Luă o înghițitură de apă și se întoarse cu fața la perete. Gustul acela îngrozitor de cerneală stăruia: Cet affreux goût d'encre continuait”. Prozatorul însuși spune că a simțit aievea, cînd a scris aceste propoziții, gustul otrăvii.Faptul că, înaintea sfîrșitului, eroina simte în gură un gust „iute, îngrozitor de cerneală” (ne-am fi așteptat la un gust amar, la orice altceva) pare menit să atragă atenția asupra principalei sale greșeli. Nu-i bine să citești ca Don Quijote...P. S. În Capharnaum / Capernaum (așezare din Galilea), Iisus Christos a vindecat mai mulți bolnavi: slujitorul unui centurion roman, un paralitic...P. P. S. Se pare că arsenicul nu are nici un gust. Doar un ușor miros de usturoi.
1759957440	GUSTAVE FLAUBERT : «Η Μαντάμ Μποβαρύ είμαι εγώ»...Υπάρχει κάτι το γοητευτικά παράξενο και αξιοσημείωτο σε αυτό το βιβλίο. Θεωρώ πως η Έμμα Μποβαρύ,η ηρωίδα με τα μοιραία πάθη και τους πόνους απο τα λάθη,είναι ένας χαρακτήρας λογοτεχνικά αξέχαστος,διαχρονικά μισητός και θλιβερά αγαπητός. Σκανδαλιστικός και μαγικός. Μια προσωπικότητα την οποία ο καθένας αντιλαμβάνεται και κρίνει τελείως διαφορετικά,σύμφωνα με την ηλικία,το φύλο και οπωσδήποτε τις εμπειρίες του. Εκεί κρύβεται το μαγικό του χαρακτήρα της μοιραίας πρωταγωνίστριας. Ο συγγραφέας βασανιστικά αργά χτίζει τη μαντάμ Μποβαρύ και μας καλεί όλοι μας να δούμε τον εαυτό μας σε αυτήν. Μέσα απο αυτήν. Εύκολα και ίσως επιφανειακά κρίνουμε αρνητικά την ηρωίδα και την καίμε στην πυρά με έφλεκτα υλικά τον λυρισμό και την χυδαιότητα. Υλικά που μας προμηθεύει ο συγγραφέας σε μεγάλες ποσότητες. Αργά και βασανιστικά ο Φλομπέρ παρουσιάζει τον «κακό» χαρακτήρα της ηρωίδας σε πλήρη αντίθεση με τον «καλό» χαρακτήρα του συζύγου της. Αφενός,η πλοκή σκανδαλιστικά μας φέρνει αντιμέτωπους με μια παθιασμένη και ακόλαστη γυναίκα. Μια σκιά έντονης προσωπικότητας που παραπαίει ανάμεσα στην κομψότητα,τον ρομαντισμό,την ονειροπόληση-για πολυτέλεια,ηδονές,ανομολόγητους πόθους-και την παράλογη απαιτητικότητα.Μια γυναίκα ζηλιάρα,επιφανειακή,ματαιόδοξη,αδίστακτη,εμμονική και εγωπαθή. Ψυχρή,οργισμένη,κυκλοθυμική και ανισόρροπη. Ελπίζει και εκστασιάζεται πριν το γάμο της. Απογοητεύεται και αλλάζει ερωτικές αγκαλιές μετά. Ο ερχομός του παιδιού της δεν καταφέρνει να την ανταμείψει με το μεγαλείο της μητρότητας. Η αγάπη του ήπιου,αγαθού και ταπεινού συζύγου της είναι μάλλον πατρική για εκείνη. Μέσα της παλεύει η θρησκευτική ψευτοηθική της εποχής και η ματαίωση των προσδοκιών της. Πολύ γρήγορα νικούν οι προσδοκίες και παραδίνεται σε ερωτικούς πειρασμούς. Αφετέρου,η ίδια αυτή πλοκή μας φέρνει δίπλα και πολύ κοντά σε ένα δυστυχισμένο πλάσμα που αξίζει τη συμπόνοια μας. Η Έμμα είναι μια ενήλικη που στερείται σχεδόν τα πάντα απο παιδί. Μεγαλώνει και ζει ταπεινά κοντά στον πατέρα της έχοντας περάσει πολλά χρόνια εσώκλειστη σε μοναστήρι. Η θρησκευτική αγωγή της στέρησης δεν ταιριάζει στην ψυχή της. Δεν πήρε αγάπη ποτέ. Δεν αγαπήθηκε βαθιά και ανιδιοτελώς απο κάποιον,επομένως είναι ανίκανη να αγαπήσει. Η συναισθηματική της νοημοσύνη αρχίζει και τελειώνει σε έναν κόσμο προβολής,εξιδανίκευσης και ατομικών απολαύσεων.Ζώντας απομονωμένη σε έναν στενόμυαλα ανδρικό κόσμο συμβιβάζεται αρχικά και παντρεύεται για να αποδράσει και να αγαπηθεί. Απογοητεύεται απο τη νέα κατάσταση και αρχίζουν οι τάσεις φυγής.Θλίβεται έντονα,αντιδρά,επαναστατεί,πιστεύει πως αξίζει μια ασυμβίβαστη και πολυτελή ζωή. Αρχίζει να μάχεται για ικανοποίηση παντός είδους και ανεξαρτησία. Είναι τρυφερή και γενναιόδωρη με τους εραστές της επειδή παλεύει να αγαπηθεί,για να αισθανθεί ασφάλεια καταντάει εμμονική,άρρωστη,κουραστική. Πνίγεται,ρισκάρει,βασανίζεται,προδίδεται και καταρρέει. Είναι αφελής και ευάλωτη. Θεωρεί το κύρος και την υψηλή κοινωνία λύτρωση. Διαψεύδεται. Ενδίδει με περισσή ανωριμότητα σε πειρασμούς για να οδηγηθεί στην ευτυχία. Η αποτυχία της είναι μεγαλειώδης και επισύρει αισθήματα οίκτου και οργής. Καταστρέφει τη ζωή της και την οικογένεια της. «GUSTAVE FLAUBERT» : «Η Μαντάμ Μποβαρί είμαι εγώ»...Χυδαία μαντάμ Μποβαρύ ή Έμμα σε αέναη αναζήτηση αγάπης;Καλή ανάγνωση!Πολλούς ασπασμούς!!
143100355	Henry James once said, "Madame Bovary has a perfection that not only stamps it, but that makes it stand almost alone; it holds itself with such a supreme unapproachable assurance as both excites and defies judgment."That's right. Defies judgment.I don't know... he looks kind of judgy to me...Unfortunately, I had to read a translation as my French is nowhere near good enough to read the original. Though I am assured that the prose in the original French are amazing and inspiring.I can certainly appreciate the characterization and story-telling ability but I personally struggled with the story as I reconciled what Flaubert seemed to be saying about society, women, women who had affairs, men and romance.Now, I would like to take a moment to quote Manny's Review, since he is the one who convinced me to read this book in the first place."Flaubert makes no obvious attempt to judge Emma..."No, Flaubert doesn't break up his beautiful prose at any point with, "So whilst that is a very nice tree, I would like to intrude and mention that Emma is, like, a total ho! So, now back to the tree..."I feel he doesn't do this because that would be superfluous. In fact, it seems to me that he doesn't stop judging through this entire book. The judgement is like looking at vacation photos of a ninja family. You can't see it but you know it's there.Why else would Flaubert so meticulously describe and relish in Emma's fall from grace? Every little detail is mentioned with the same eagerness as a kid dobbing in their little brother. He puts together a file of evidence for her complicity, a smoking gun as you'd say, and leaves it up to us to point the finger.-She immediately decides after her wedding night that she doesn't love Charles.-She then sets about creating her own misery by obsessing and romanticizing this unhappiness until it consumes her.-She goes from a productive and proficient housewife to a morose, unrelenting mess.-She quickly begins despising Charles and blaming him for everything while he dotes on her and grows increasingly content.-Her home quickly falls into a state of shabbiness.-Her daughter goes neglected.-Her first romance uses her unforgivably but is eventually driven away by her incessant neediness and demands.-Her second romance, whilst more earnest in his affections, is also driven away by her incessant neediness, deteriorating mental health and demands.-She drives her husband into bankruptcy.-Commits suicide to escape it all.-Her husband falls into despair, neglects their child and quickly dies.-The child ends up working in a cotton factory.What would a child do working in a cotton factory, you ask?Oh, just a little mill-scavenging. Their job was to crawl under the huge, spinning WHEELS OF DEATH to pick up the spare bits of cotton. They were not allowed to sit, rest, or take a break while the mill ran - which was always except for Sunday when they cleaned the huge, spinning WHEELS OF DEATH that caused these children to live in a constant state of grief and terrorWell, doesn't that just cheer you up!The entire story arc and every unnecessary tidbit condemns Emma like one more nail in the coffin. Society is condemned, men are condemned, romantic idealism is condemned. Really, this novel thinks everyone is to blame. What is this novel's answer to it? It seems to be saying, "Well, that silly woman had so much and she threw it all away and look at her now, kids. She's dead! And poor, which is really much worse."The novel seems to step back and tsk at Emma, saying that she had so much. A safe and comfortable home, a good husband who doted on her and she just couldn't be happy with that.Then it looks at society and says, "Well, you created this and now you've helped destroy her too, you assholes!"It shakes its head at Charles and says, "You weren't strong enough to keep her in line and then you pined over this worthless woman to the ruinment of your only child."But I wonder what this book would have been if Emma hadn't been a victim to everyone and every circumstance except for Charles. I wonder what this book would have been like if it displayed a far more realistic approach to a woman having an affair and her reasons. Because, let's face it, this book's depiction of a woman and why she has extra-marital relations is very obtuse. Emma's life and situation is hardly the common for women who seek more out of life. This book makes her quest for more seem silly, unneccessary and ungrateful. Most of all, I wonder what this novel would have been like if it had dealt with Emma as a real character. One who didn't need to be mostly insane to justify having an affair. One who wasn't both stupid and entitled and didn't lose all her money through a lack of self-control and ability to take five seconds to do the math. One who was capable of growing and learning from life.Unfortunately all that is lost. Even in the end, Emma learnt nothing. All sound and fury. Signifying nothing.Much like this novel.My final criticism about this book...This was a book about people gettin' it on...AND THERE WAS NO SEX!Curse you, Flaubert! Curse you!
1019360291	Emma is a rather silly, very passionate ( too much so) bored, uneducated to the reality of the real world young woman, who believes in the romantic novels she reads, moonlight walks, eerie, forbidding castles, dangerous flights into unknown, and strange lands always trying to escape their frightening captors... brave, handsome men, that are faithful to their beautiful virtuous women, fighting the evil, monstrous, corrupt but attractive libertines and the hero rescuing them in the nick of time...Emma lives on a farm in mid nineteenth century France, the widower, a remote still gentle father, Monsieur Rouault anxious to get rid of his useless daughter, and though he enjoys the work, is not very good at it, ( farming) but a considerably better businessman; being an only child, she wants excitement. Hating the monotonous country, dreaming about the titillating city, Paris and the fabulous people and things there. Yet meeting and marrying the dull, common , hardworking good doctor, Charles Bovary who fixed her father's broken leg, he adores his pretty wife, life has to be better elsewhere she thinks, so agrees to the marriage proposal. Moving to the small, tedious village of Tostes , Emma regrets soon her hasty marriage. Even the birth of a daughter, Berthe who she neglects, not a loving mother the maid raises , has no effect on her gloomy moods. She craves romance, her husband is not like the men in her books, ordinary looking, not fearless or intelligent, words do not inspire coming out of his mouth, he lacks the intense feelings she wants. After moving to another quiet village, Yonville (Ry) clueless Bovary thinks the change of scenery, will lift his listless wife out of her funk. The local wealthy landowner Rodolphe Boulanger, sees the pretty Emma, senses her unhappiness and seduces , a veteran at this sort of thing, he has had many mistresses in the past. At first the secret, quite perilous, thrilling rendezvous behind the back of Emma's house, clandestine notes, reckless walks in the predawn mornings to his Chateau, reminds Emma of her novels... but everything becomes routine, no better than married life. Rodolphe gets annoyed, unexcited, he also doesn't feel like the beginning, sends a letter breaking off the affair. The emotional Emma becomes very ill, her husband fears that she may die, puzzled at the sudden sickness. A slow recover ensues, Emma still has the same husband, starts another affair with a clerk, shy Leon Dupuis, younger than she more grateful too not like the previous lover, the erratic Madame Bovary is in control. In the nearby town of Rouen in Normandy they meet every week, until this also becomes uninteresting, the spendthrift woman behind her trusting, loving, naive , husband's back drives them to ruin through her unreasonable buying sprees . Emma Bovary learns much too late, that the only person who loves her, is the unremarkable man she married. What can I say, love or hate this , it remains a controversial classic , the crowds flock to.
215641785	Necesitaba volver a leer esta maravilla. Muy para vacaciones, y habían un montón de cosas que había olvidado por completo. Me parece una novela que resalta lo desvalidas que estaban las mujeres en esa época, crecían para no poder manejarse en el mundo, tenían que ser protegidas para sobrevivir, cosa que me desesperó. Emma! Sufrí por su infelicidad, y no se diga por su mal manejo de finanzas, que al final la perdió. Ay!! Esta novela hay que leerla, es tan hermosa!
4736926008	I read this a long time ago but the only thing I could remember about it was that I read it a long time ago. Also that some lady was married to some really boring guy. This turned out to be true. Madame Bovary was like the young Juliette Binoche from Three ColoursAnd her husband was like Jessie Plemons from The Power of the DogHe is the guy who the instant he gets married puts on fifty pounds and ages 20 years so it is not to anyone’s surprise that the hot tomato that is his wife gets so she glazes over as soon as she hears the chilling phrase "Honey I’m home." Here is Juliette’s – sorry, Emma’s very own father, pondering Charles Bovary :It was true he thought him a bit of a loser, and not what he’d have chosen as a son-in-law, but people said he was careful with his moneyNot a ringing endorsement. Emma, she is grabbing Charles to get out of the house where she feels like a prisoner, the impulsive fate of many young women. Quite soon she is feeling like she swapped one prison for another. Flaubert can make exquisite phrases, here is one :Her will, like the veil attached to her hat, flutters with every breeze; always there is the desire inviting her on, and, always, convention holding her back.Desire for what? Well, her husband's idea of passion was to have sex once a week on Saturday night in the exact same position if he wasn't too tired. She thinks life should have more possibilities. She is looking for something other than the smothering blandness and monotony of being a rural doctor’s pretty missus, something to get her blood surging, something, anything. What enraged her was that Charles seemed quite unaware of her anguish. His conviction that he was making her happy seemed to her a mindless insult…. She was sometimes astonished at the appalling possibilities that came into her head; and yet she must go on smiling, go on hearing herself repeat that she was happy, and let everyone believe it!Eventually she meets a local rich guy who is a Player, which, the Urban Dictionary reminds us, is A Man or Woman that has MORE than ONE person think that they are the ONLY ONE.This Rodolphe takes one look at Emma and thinksPoor little thing! Gasping for love like a carp gasping for water on a kitchen table. With just three little words of love, it would worship you, I’d bet on it, it would be so tender and charming! Yes, but how to get rid of it afterwards?So they have this years-long affair and she almost melts his heart – but no, not really. Are you kidding, not Rodolphe! Eventually, as you might predict :Certain of being loved, he stopped taking pains to please her, and imperceptibly his manner changed.Flaubert skewers this boyfriend without mercy, allowing us into his player brain most uncomfortably :He had heard all these things said to him so many times that they no longer held any surprises for him. Emma was just like all his mistresses, and the charm of novelty, gradually falling away like a garment, laid bare the eternal monotony of passion., which never varies in its forms and its expression. He could not see – this man of such broad experience – the difference of feeling beneath the similarity of expression.People say that Flaubert doesn’t comment on his characters and just pins them up like a butterfly collector, but as you see, he is explicit in telling us Rodolphe is a nasty nasty man, but, you know, normally nasty. Here’s another great turn of phrase about this creep :His pleasures, like boys playing in a school yard, had so thoroughly trampled on his heart that nothing green would grow thereThere is a great moment when he has to write a big goodbye letter to Emma – she’s preparing to run off with him, abandon her husband and daughter in a snap – she is so in love with him – and he finished the letter then thinks hmm, there’s something missing, and drips a single drop of water onto the page. Yes, a tear will make it look more heartfelt.The intimate story of Emma’s decline and fall is psychologically gripping, even though this is a simple age-old story we have had before in a thousand variations. Flaubert was the great anti-romantic, he was the auditor of human disillusion. You are with Emma so closely throughout this novel that her death, even though you know it will come, is still shocking. It was very similar to watching the great documentary Amy, about Amy Winehouse. The final scene where we see her being taken out of her house in a body bag gives you a real jolt of horror.Readers should be warned of one thing however : James Joyce said he wanted to write Ulysses so that if Dublin burned to the ground they could rebuild it by referring to his novel. He may have got that super-realist detail mania from Flaubert who thinks that Madame Bovary should be the encyclopedia of rural France, so prepare for boring conversations between pharmacists and doctors and farmers and other farmers and a 60 page description of an agricultural fair. Some of this can be zzzzzzz. I would normally knock off half a star for that kind of thing but not in this case.Madame Bovary is a great novel. 5 stars, of course.
18742186	Like every European teenager who takes French at secondary school, I was supposed to read Madame Bovary when I was seventeen or so. I chose not to, and boy, am I glad I did. I couldn't possibly have done justice to the richness of Flaubert's writing as a seventeen-year-old. Moreover, I probably would have hated the characters so much that I never would have given the book another chance. Which would have been a shame, as it's really quite deserving of the tremendous reputation it has.Madame Bovary is the story of Emma Rouault, a mid-nineteenth-century peasant woman who has read too many sentimental novels for her own good. When the hopeless romantic marries Charles Bovary, a country doctor, she thinks she is going to lead a life full of passion and grandeur, but instead she gets stuck in a provincial town where nothing ever happens. Hell-bent on some escapism and yearning for someone who understands her romantic needs, Emma embarks on two adulterous affairs, plunges herself into debt and ends up very badly indeed, leaving behind a husband who might not have been the dashing hero of her dreams but who most certainly did care about her. Madame Bovary is most famous for its portrayal of an unfulfilled woman, and indeed it's Emma's ennui and desperate need for romance that the reader will remember. They are described so convincingly that it's hard to believe the author was a man rather than a woman. However, Madame Bovary isn't all about one woman going through life dreaming and breaking down every time reality catches up with her. Like other great classics of realism, it's about society – about the social mores and conditions which instil certain kinds of behaviour in people and then punish them for it. Flaubert's depiction of Emma's provincial village (a haven of all that is base and mediocre) is painstakingly detailed and realistic. It's a wonderfully vivid and well-observed account of life in mid-nineteenth-century rural France, where people go about doing their jobs, conducting illicit affairs, gossiping behind each other's backs, ruining each other financially and generally leading lives which are far from exalted. Flaubert's portrayal of his characters is unabashedly vicious and misanthropic, but such is the quality of his writing that you forgive him for taking such a dim view of humanity. There are descriptions in the book (the seduction at the market, the club-foot operation, the endlessly prolonged death from arsenic poisoning) which rank among the best things nineteenth-century realism has to offer – gloriously life-like scenes which make you feel as if you're right there in the thick of things, watching things happen in front of your horrified eyes. And if the whole thing has a tragic and deterministic slant to it, well, so be it. That's realism for you. At least Flaubert has the decency to grant his heroine a few sighs of rapture before her inexorable demise. For it may be a realist novel, but it has some genuinely romantic moments of passion and drama (cab ride through Rouen, anyone?), and is all the better for it. Ultimately, how you respond to Madame Bovary depends on your own susceptibility to romantic notions. If, like Emma Bovary, you're prone to dreams of passion, beauty and perfection, and yearn to feel and experience rather than being stuck in a dreary life in a village where nothing ever happens, chances are you'll be able to relate to Emma and thus see the genius of Flaubert's depiction of her. If, on the other hand, you think that such romantic escapism is a lot of sentimental, self-indulgent claptrap (which it is – that's the tragedy of it!), you probably won't be able to relate to Emma at all, and therefore won't much appreciate her as a tragic heroine. As for myself, I'm definitely in the former camp. If I'd been Emma, I probably would have walked into the same traps that she does. I would have fallen in love with the one neighbour who seems to understand my need for intensity, I would have gone through the same mad cycle of repentance, dissatisfaction and making the same mistakes again, and I probably would have spent a bit too much money in my quest for soul-affirming experiences, as well. My ruin wouldn't have been as complete as Emma's, but it would have been fed by the same dreams and desires. Oh, yes. So don't let anyone tell you Madame Bovary is an old-fashioned creature whose dilemmas are no longer relevant to modern readers. There are plenty of people in modern society who are as much in love with romance itself as she is, and not just women, either. And as for discontent, how many people today aren't dissatisfied with their lives because they don't match the glamorous/exciting lives they see on TV? And how many people today don't rack up huge debts because the magazines they read have led them to believe that they're entitled to more than is within their means? Replace 'sentimental novels' by 'TV', 'movies' and 'magazines', and all of a sudden Emma's cravings won't seem so outdated any more. Quite the contrary; they're as timeless and universal as they ever were. That's the hallmark of a classic – it speaks to us from across a century and a half and shows us ourselves. We may not much like the picture of ourselves, but it's pretty powerful all the same.I'd give the book four and a half stars if I could, but alas. In the absence of half stars, four stars will have to do, with the assurance that it's well worth another half.
6630666	Why are all the "great classics" lead by famed female heroines all too often about personal freedom thru means of sexual compromise leading to abject misery and ultimate demise? I realize it's an accurate depiction of culture and times, however why are Bovary and Moll Flanders the memorable matriarchs of classic literature? See my commentary on the Awakening for similar frustrations. Why aren't there more works about strong women making a difference in their own lives if not those of their families and communities? Why aren't we having young women read a work or 2 portraying a strong female who doesn't end up having an affair, committing suicided, or otherwise screwing up her own life and the lives of others as she sinks to the bottom where she inevitably belonged? Where are the strong, sentient heroines who might make feminists look slightly intelligent and/or inspirational?
4588314463	Audiobook zepsuł tę powieść. Nie polecam!
118253850	The first reading of this novel does no justice to its original intended effect. The book must be reread especially if it was first encountered when the reader’s life was still devoid of romance. Not until the second time around do the details linger, memorably, and the speedy plot that Part One promised is detained for the remaining Parts Two & Three which include photographically-intense colors and emotions felt (or, even not felt at all) by Emma Bovary. The plot is carefully-crafted; it is bookmarked by the lives of the secondary characters, as if Mme. Bovary is the (literal) center meanwhile her dilemma is a more private one: that lives go on before (the education and upbringing of the incompetent man that will be her husband) & after (the deaths of the members of the Bovary clan, the success of M. Homais) the actual core means that the world at large is indifferent to her & her tale is almost wholly forgotten, just swallowed up. Here for the reader’s consideration is a full life. Perhaps “robust” would not be a correct adjective to describe a life of desperation and woe. Emma Bovary is human because she is not all good nor all evil. She is materialistic but also idealistic. Wife and lover. Belonging nowhere, like a character born at the most inadequate of times. Like Oedipus with the Oracle, however, she is knowledgeable of the fate that is in store for adulteresses.The plot has plunges and heights, a spectrum that is available to anyone belonging to the human race. The pathos comes from all the chains Bovary must break to become free, and the further entanglement of her emotions complicate matters. Mme Bovary does not commit suicide with arsenic because of monetary problems. The title is perfect since it is itself a title: Madame Bovary. There are several Madame Bovarys in the book, including Charles’s first wife and his mother. She is called Emma when she is free, when her identity becomes her own & she is dehumanized no longer, especially not by the sympathetic reader. Who can escape their position in society, their gender, their duties, their fate? Rodolphe tells Emma: “if two poor souls should finally come together, everything is organized to prevent them from uniting. Still they try, they beat their wings, they call out to one another.” It's this attempt which makes Madame Bovary a classic, modern tragedy where a soul is doomed because she feels everything, yet is only able to express the most minimal. Emma Bovary is in love with the notion of love, the conventions are her ideals, & she is nevertheless brave to at least try.
3861535540	Prozatorul francez a început să redacteze Madame Bovary în seara zilei de 19 septembrie 1851. A terminat romanul în aprilie 1856. În 31 mai, i-a trimis manuscrisul prietenului său Maxime Du Camp. A lucrat cîte 10 ore pe zi, fără întreruperi semnificative.În Papagalul lui Flaubert, Julian Barnes a observat o ciudată ezitare a autorului, cînd vine vorba de ochii doamnei Bovary. Flaubert dă impresia că nu s-a hotărît de-a lungul celor 5 ani în care a lucrat la roman ce culoare ar trebui să aibă ochii Emmei. Am recitit de curînd romanul și am căutat pasajele în care naratorul descrie legendarii ochi. Iată la ce rezultate uimitoare am ajuns:1. „O vedea în oglindă… Ochii ei negri păreau şi mai negri” (I: 8).2. „Noianul de gînduri triste întuneca ochii ei albaştri” (III: 1). 3. „Văzuţi de aproape, ochii ei păreau măriţi, mai ales cînd, trezindu-se, clipea de mai multe ori; negri la umbră şi albastru-închis în plină zi, aveau parcă straturi de culori succesive, care, mai întunecate la fund, se limpezeau din ce în ce spre suprafaţa emailului. Ochiul [lui Charles, n. m.] se pierdea în aceste adâncimi” (I: 5). 4. „Ceea ce [Emma] avea frumos erau ochii; deşi căprui, păreau negri din cauza genelor” (I: 2). Așadar: ochii doamnei Bovary sînt:- negri,- albaștri,- albastru închis spre negru,- căprui spre negru...Oare ce culoare să aleg? Dați-mi un sfat... P. S. De fapt, nu Julian Barnes a observat nehotărîrea lui Flaubert, ci o cercetătoare engleză malițioasă (care făcea parte, firește, dintr-un grup de...).
3015554491	Il fatto che su Goodreads questo libro abbia un punteggio medio più basso di quello di Cinquanta sfumature di grigio è la prova definitiva del decadimento culturale della nostra società."Ve lo meritate Christian Grey!" (cit. Nanni Moretti, probabilmente)
3580602057	اين كتاب بدون شك همه ما رو به ياد آنا كارنينا ميندازه، البته مادام بوواري قبل از اون نوشته شده.بهرحال مسئله ايي كه تو تين دو كتاب نظرمو جلب كرد،ميزان اثري بود كه خيانت زنها ميذاشت بر زندگي خونوادشون و صد البته خودمشي اونا.من سعي در توجيه خيانت ندارم، ولي يك سوال مهم پيش اومده چرا نويسنده ها ميخوان خيانت زنها را اينقدر بزرگ جلوه بدن؟طبيعتا تو تاريخ اين چند هزار سال اخير تعداد خيانت مردان بيشتر از زنان بوده ولي من هيچ كتابي نخوندم كه آخرش يه مرد خودشو بكشه!چرا تنها رسوايي خيانت براي زنهاست؟گويا وقتي نويسنده اين كتابو مينويسه به ترويج ابتذال متهم ميشه، اگه بجاي اما، شارل خيانت ميكرد آيا بازم نويسنده متهم ميشد؟
38206712	Moira posted a terrific review of Rabbit Redux the other day, and it made me realise something I should have noticed years ago. Rabbit Angstrom is Emma Bovary's literary grandson! As Moira says, Updike was deeply influenced by Nabokov, a fact that had somehow passed me by. Nabokov, in his turn, was a disciple of Flaubert; he famously said that he'd read all Flaubert, in the original French, by the time he was 14. So the family tree is clear enough.It's one of those cases, though, where things have sort of skipped a generation. It's not hard to see that the three authors are stylistically close. But Flaubert and Updike are both ultra-naturalistic and Nabokov is not, and Nabokov also has quite a different take on psychology compared to the other two. So you don't immediately link Updike to Flaubert, or at least I didn't; though I do remember, at least once, defending Rabbit by comparing him with Emma. It seemed somehow like a reasonable comparison, but I'd thought it was just a chance resemblance.Now that I have the missing link, it's all painfully obvious. The central characters in both stories are marked by early experiences which give them exaggerated hopes of what they can expect out of life; Rabbit is a high-school basketball star, and Emma attends the unfortunate ball at the château La Vaubyessard. After this, everything is a disappointment to them, and they find life with their respective partners, Janice and Charles, dull and stultifying. Their sense of frustration drives them into increasingly disastrous sexual liaisons, which eventually kill them and destroy several other lives as well.Flaubert makes no obvious attempt to judge Emma, which led to many of his contemporaries denouncing the book as wicked, immoral and even obscene, charges which are often applied to Updike for similar reasons; many American readers today dislike Rabbit as much as late nineteenth century French readers disliked Emma. To me, these criticisms are completely irrelevant to the question of whether or not Rabbit and Madame Bovary are great books. We see Emmas and Rabbits all around us; ignoring the novels is hardly going to make them go away. And the language is so delightful, especially Flaubert's. I'm in the middle of reading Madame Bovary for the third time. Emma has just met Rodolphe: he's put together a crude but effective seduction strategy, which he's already starting to implement. As usual, I'm willing her not to fall for him, but I don't think it's going to work out the way I want it to. Poor Emma._______________________________________________Finished. It's an almost perfect book, that you can read any number of times. Here are some of my favourite passages.The trashy novels that Emma reads when she's feeling depressed during the early years of her marriage:Ce n'étaient qu'amours, amants, amantes, dames persécutées s'évanouissant dans des pavillons solitaires, postillons qu'on tue à tous les relais, chevaux qu'on crève à toutes les pages, forêts sombres, troubles du coeur, serments, sanglots, larmes et baisers, nacelles au clair de lune, rossignols dans les bosquets, messieurs braves comme des lions, doux comme des agneaux, vertueux comme on ne l'est pas, toujours bien mis, et qui pleurent comme des urnes.MM. Bournisien and Homais watch over Emma's corpse, while squabbling with each other:Le pharmacien et le curé se replongèrent dans leurs occupations, non sans dormir de temps à autre, ce dont ils s'accusaient réciproquement à chaque réveil nouveau. Alors M. Bournisien aspergeait la chambre d'eau bénite et Homais jetait un peu de chlore par terre.Rodolphe finishes his break-up letter:-- Comment vais-je signer, maintenant? se dit-il. Votre tout dévoué?... Non. Votre ami?... Oui, c'est cela.«Votre ami.»Il relut sa lettre. Elle lui parut bonne.-- Pauvre petite femme! pensa-t-il avec attendrissement. Elle va me croire plus insensible qu'un roc; il eût fallu quelques larmes là-dessus; mais, moi, je ne peux pas pleurer; ce n'est pas ma faute. Alors, s'étant versé de l'eau dans un verre, Rodolphe y trempa son doigt et il laissa tomber de haut une grosse goutte, qui fit une tache pâle sur l'encre; puis, cherchant à cacheter la lettre, le cachet Amor nel cor se rencontra.-- Cela ne va guère à la circonstance... Ah bah! n'importe!Après quoi, il fuma trois pipes et s'alla coucher.And a little earlier, this, which I think is simply one of the most heartbreaking paragraphs ever written.Il s'était tant de fois entendu dire ces choses, qu'elles n'avaient pour lui rien d'original. Emma ressemblait à toutes les maîtresses; et le charme de la nouveauté, peu à peu tombant comme un vêtement, laissait voir à nu l'éternelle monotonie de la passion, qui a toujours les mêmes formes et le même langage. Il ne distinguait pas, cet homme si plein de pratique, la dissemblance des sentiments sous la parité des expressions. Parce que des lèvres libertines ou vénales lui avaient murmuré des phrases pareilles, il ne croyait que faiblement à la candeur de celles-là; on en devait rabattre, pensait-il, les discours exagérés cachant les affections médiocres; comme si la plénitude de l'âme ne débordait pas quelquefois par les métaphores les plus vides, puisque personne, jamais, ne peut donner l'exacte mesure de ses besoins, ni de ses conceptions, ni de ses douleurs, et que la parole humaine est comme un chaudron fêlé où nous battons des mélodies à faire danser les ours, quand on voudrait attendrir les étoiles.
282330619	مدام بوفاريهذه المرأة التي لا تدري أتحتقرها أم تبكي عليهاأتشفق على حالها أم تلعنهافيا لكل هذا البؤسويا لكل هذا السخط..وربما يكون السخط هو مفتاح الرواية الرئيسيفهو الشعور الذي يمزق إيما لحما ودما وتأوهاتلقد انبثقت تعاستها جزعا ووجعا وتهورا وتمردا‏ولكن الأنكى من هذا كلهخيانةً::::::::::::::::::::::::بلغت الأنانية بإيما مبلغا جعلها تحطم كل القوانينلا القوانين التي ابتدعها البشر والتي لا أبالي بها‏بل قوانين الإنسانية التي كان عليها تقديمها على هذا الشبق الذي ملأ ‏كيانهافجعلها تنساق ملهوفة أمام كل رغبة ملونة زاهيةضاربة بعرض الحائط كل وخز مؤنب بداخلهابأن عليها ألا تخونألا تخون...‏‎ فهل نعذر مدام بوفاري لأنها تعيش جحيمها الخاصلأنها تعاني البرود وهي جمرة متقدةلأنها انزلقت آملة في حياة شغوفة ‏تبدد الحيرة والألم والسأملأنها أرادت أن تعيش كيفما ترى للعيش معنى..؟‎ بالتأكيد ستبكي معها وعليهاولكنك لن تتوقف عن لعنها كذلك::::::::::::::::::::::::قيمة الرواية تتجلى في قدرة الكاتب المدهشة على الغوص بداخل ‏دماغ مدام بوفاري وتبيان هذا التخبط المزاجي الذي عاشتهوجعل قارئه يعيش الحيرة طوال الرواية وحتى بعد إتمامهافلوبير بروايته هذه اتجه بقوة نحو الكتابة الواقعية ‏منفلتا من أسر الأدب الرومانسي‏مثريا روايته بعمق النظرةومبحرا في دهاليز شخصياته بهواجسها وأمنياتها المعلقةوعارضا للأفكار بتضاربها واختلافاتها ‏وهذا الدافع الآثم المطهِّر بداخل كل واحد فينا‏للتحرر ..‏للهروب من قيود فرضتها علينا مجتمعات وأيدولوجيات لا ذنب لنا في كوننا جوارهاولكن أبدا ابدا لا نكون جزءا منها
6163206759	داستان کتاب مادام بوواری از جایی شروع میشه که شارل بوواری نوجوانه و در مدرسه مورد تحقیر و تمسخر هم‌کلاسی‌هاش قرار می‌گیره و با وجود تلاشی که می‌کنه ابتدا برای تحصیل در رشته پزشکی نمرات کافی رو کسب نمیکنه اما در نهایت پس از جهد زیاد به عنوان پزشک نه چندان حاذق مشغول به کار میشه و مادرش برای تأمین آینده‌ی پسرش مقدمات ازدواج با یک بیوه با جهیزیه‌ی خوب رو براش مهیا می‌کنه. شارل چندان خشنود نیست از زندگی با همسرش و پس از مرگ همسرش عاشق اما، دختر یکی از بیمارانش میشه و تازه اینجاست که مادام بوواری پا به داستان می‌ذاره. مادام بوواری عاشق رمان‌ و عشق‌های آتشینه و در ذهنش چنین چیزی برای خودش تصور می‌کنه اما در واقعیت به چنین چیزی نمی‌رسه و برای رسیدن به خواسته‌هاش مسیر درستی رو پیش نمیگیره تا عاقبت خوبی در انتظارش نباشه. مادام بوواری توانایی تمییز دادن رویا و توهم با واقعیت رو نداشت و برای رسیدن به خواسته‌های خودش به معنای واقعی دست به هر کاری که نباید، زد. کتاب سختی خاصی برای خوندن نداره و جذابیت داستان به میزانی هست که شما رو ترغیب کنه به خوندن در حالی که خستگی خاصی رو متوجه نشید. رمان مادام بوواری بر بسیاری از نویسندگان تاثیر گذاشته و مورد ستایش بسیاری از نویسندگان بزرگ مثل ماریو بارگاس یوسا قرار گرفته.ه
392454715	In this case, I think it was a bad idea to know stuff about Madame Bovary and Gustave Flaubert before starting the book. My high school English teacher loved to talk about books - and I know how she feels - but the result was quite a few spoilers for a lot of European classics. I think that knowing the author's intentions can be a bad thing and I'm certain that I was unable to keep it from influencing the way I viewed Emma Bovary and her behaviour. If you're curious about these intentions of Flaubert's: (view spoiler)[He hated the rising bourgeoisie during the nineteenth century, therefore he intentionally painted them as silly fools obsessed with romance and never satisfied with the good things life gave them. (hide spoiler)]Even so, three stars means I liked it and I did. The novel reminds me of a cross between Lady Chatterley's Lover and The Painted Veil. I found it better than the former but nowhere near as good as the latter. It is built on the same ideas of a woman being unhappy in marriage and turning to other comforts and affairs in order to try and gain some happiness and romance from life. Emma Bovary starts off a character much like Kitty from The Painted Veil, she is naive and fickle, her new husband is nice and kind but he cannot hold her interest. She longs for passion and excitement and she becomes delusional in the face of empty promises made by her secret lover.She is a far better character than Constance Chatterley, or perhaps what I mean is that I find her selfishness and dissatisfaction with everything in life more interesting. I am not a big fan of Lawrence - a man who I believe wrote mediocre romance novels and owes his fame to what could at the time be considered shock tactics like "ohmigod, female orgasms!" and "ohmigod, affairs with the working class!" All I'm saying is that Lawrence was lucky the term "mommy porn" wasn't around back then. But Maugham is an entirely different story and I think where Emma Bovary fails and Kitty succeeds is in character growth.In The Painted Veil, Kitty starts out naive and annoying, at times you'd like to strangle her for being so frustrating... but she suffers, she changes, she adapts and she grows into a different human being. Emma Bovary is a rather hopeless case, and if you did happen to read the spoiler in the first paragraph then you'll probably understand why I think this was Flaubert's intention all along. I will give him every credit where it's due, I think he paints a very interesting and detailed picture of a unhappy woman's life and mental workings. It has been pointed out that he doesn't judge Emma, but I sort of think he does in an indirect way. I mean, Emma Bovary and those closest to her are the ones who suffer in the end because she was so delusional and unable to be happy and satisfied with what she had. But, like I said, my opinion is undoubtedly influenced by what I already knew of Flaubert.One more thing: I don't believe Gustave Flaubert is really Gustave Flaubert. I think he is Hercule Poirot O.O ["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1270369073	Perhaps she would have liked to confide in someone about all these things. But how does one express an uneasiness so intangible, one that changes shape like a cloud, that changes direction like the wind? She lacked the words, the occasion, the courage. Some blame it on novels packed with sentimentalist kitsch; some point out her too-lofty dreams, her too-narrow house, so that the higher she raised the bar of happiness the harder it got to climb; some direct their anger at her reckless financial transactions that put her family in bankruptcy; some are disappointed at the lack of her sense of duty towards her husband and the small child; some dub her a coward (view spoiler)[for committing suicide when her secrets were about to get out, renouncing the chutzpah that had propelled her to devise rash schemes (hide spoiler)]. In short, everyone thinks her as silly, stupid, selfish, vacuous, impulsive, unrealistic, et cetera, even an evil woman, [insert more abuse], bent on destroying herself and her family, echoing, in a way, Madame Tuvache's assertion that such women ought to be whipped. Many of us think Emma had no good excuse to set herself on a path to self-destruction, to which Flaubert might have replied: "None of you can see past your ideological filters."Amid this torrent of condemnation we conveniently fail to see in the mirror that which Flaubert, in his deadly neutral voice, shows us unflinchingly at every major turn of the story, by employing his sad and delectable repertoire of irony: the pretentious milieu that's trapped in appearances; those stiff-collared times that judged you by your complexion of wealth; that suffocating morality which hypocritically reinforced itself through the very structures it claimed to fight. But we still forget that she prayed for a son when she got pregnant. She did not even look at the baby girl when she was born with the wrong gender. This is how Emma wishes to abandon her womanhood to realise her illusory dream: She wanted a son; he would be strong and dark, she would call him Georges; and this idea of having a male child was a sort of hoped-for compensation for all her past helplessness. A man, at least, is free; he can explore every passion, every land, overcome obstacles, taste the most distant pleasures. But a woman is continually thwarted. Her will, like the veil tied to her hat by a string, flutters with every breeze; there is always some desire luring her on, some convention holding her back. Every woman today, in any corner of the world, who doesn’t want to give birth to a girl carries a little of Madame Bovary in her. Emma, for me, is a doleful shadow of her times who seems out of step precisely because she was possessed of an untamed intelligence and unbridled passion that could find no outlet in the restrictive channels available to her. If you allow me to quote a quatrain of Omar Khayyam: There was a door to which I found no key / There was a veil past which I could not see / Some little talk awhile of me and thee / There seemed, and then no more of thee and me.Emma’s inexorable and inevitable decline fits the metaphor of a river about to burst out of its banks with tsunamic abandon, destroying itself and everything in its wake, all without recourse to its own free will. In the greater scheme of things, however, Emma is a quest for absolute happiness, for wealth, for station, for recognition, that eludes humanity at its heart. Why, when we possess all the indicators of a reasonably happy life, we still feel the pangs of ennui like a spiritual victim of an equivalent of a Somali famine? Emma provides us with an answer, and this is where she becomes universal, revealing to us a truth about the human condition. In a brilliant moment of self-actualisation Emma sees her profile reflected in the mirror, her hands and eyes so large, so dark, so deep, and says to herself again and again: "I have a lover! A lover!” reveling in the thought as though she had come into a second puberty. At last she would possess those joys of love, that fever of happiness of which she had despaired. She was entering something marvelous in which all was passion, ecstasy, delirium. It turned out to be a mirage. Happiness did not come. Love did not last. She was rediscovering in adultery all the platitudes of marriage. No matter what Emma did or thought, whatever path she undertook, she could find no answer to the enigma of existence.But where does Mr Charles Bovary fit in all this? He ticks all the boxes of a “good husband” and a “good man.” He is moderately middle class, a respectable medical practitioner who loves his wife, does not argue with her, respects her personal choices, excuses her whimsical lifestyle. On paper, and before getting to know him, Charles is a husband any woman would want. But his conversation was as flat as a sidewalk, and everyone’s ideas walked along it in their ordinary clothes, without inspiring emotion, or laughter, or reverie. He makes love without passion, speaks without wit, walks without a gait, and displays no fascination for life. He is humourless; he has no personality. Simply put, Charles can’t make Emma laugh and Emma can’t stand his stupid face. For, after all, Charles was someone, always an open ear, always a ready approbation. She confided many secrets to her greyhound! She would have done the same to the logs in the fireplace and the pendulum of the clock. Charles listens to her like a pendulum of the clock or a log in the fireplace! Later, during a bout of disquietude she wished Charles would beat her, so that she could more justly detest him, avenge herself.Flaubert enthralls the reader with his clauses towed to long sentences with judicious deployment of semi colons along the way. The continuous ebb and flow of his prose has a soporific effect on the mind. He enriches an image with choice details to highlight the mood of the setting and of the character. You do not find a spurious detail that does not add something to the narrative. The writing is remarkably modern for its time, light and airy, so different from the suffocating formality of Victorian English. There are dozens of instances I can cite of Flaubert’s beautiful, balanced, brilliant prose, his use of irony that makes this novel what it is, but that would push this write-up beyond the confines of a review and make it an essay. Suffice it to say that the sheer variety of reaction to Emma Bovary is an emphatic tribute to Flaubert’s craft.All direct quotes in italicsMay 2015
6917878673	What do we know of marriage until we marry? A glimpse at best is all that parents give their children who see the squabble not the making up after. If you lose a parent when you are young, you are robbed of even a glimpse. This purse of experience though second hand is stolen. You are poorer as a result. This is the plight of Flaubert's heroine. In all literature, she is to me the most deserving of pity. Raised in a convent school, Married off young, fresh from a convent school, this child comes to marriage with little if any experience of life. Her only wealth is books she read growing up. Smuggled into the convent by an old seamstress, the books were romances. They are the real villains in this story.Early in this portrait of a marriage, the young wife expresses her disappointment in her new husband this way. "He couldn't swim, or fence, or fire a pistol, and was unable to explain a riding term she came across in a novel one day."Whereas a man, surely, should know about everything; excel in a multitude of activities, introduce you to passion in all its force, to life in all its grace, initiate you into all mysteries!" "Sometimes he came home late, at ten or even twelve o'clock. He would want something to eat, and as the maid had gone to bed, Emma looked after him. . . . [He finished off the onion stew, pared the rind from his cheese, munched an apple, emptied the decanter, and took himself off to bed, where he lay down on his back and started snoring.""Despite everything, she tried, according to theories she considered sound, to make herself in love. By moonlight in the garden she used to recite to him all the love poetry she knew, or to sing with a sigh slow melancholy songs. It left her as unmoved as before, neither did it appear to make Charles more loving or emotional."This wife's problem isn't boredom. It is heartache. Her husband is oblivious that anything is wrong. Charles is a doctor yet detects nothing ailing his wife. Broken bones he can splint. Yet to her heart, he becomes a splinter, worsening her condition with each day. The truth is that they are both lacking in much experience of life. Charles's first marriage to a wizened widow with a bad complexion was his mother's idea and in order to set him up for life, she thinks. The widow has money, it is rumored. Charles does what his mother asks and gets married. In a scene where the first wife is fraught with fears that she will lose him - he has been visiting a patient too frequently who has a young daughter - he is not moved at all by her worries. Charles in a nutshell lacks imagination. Even when the feelings are his own. The young daughter is Emma and will become his second wife on the first's death. But his actions never draw reflection. He just bumbles along. In his medical practice his lack of though leads to an outcome for one patient that is horrific. Then, there's Emma. Dear Emma, who does so much that is wrong, too. There's no denying that. Though the harm she does is worst to herself. Emma. Emma. Emma. Never Madame Bovary, to me. That weighty title is for dowagers or painted women with guile. If those are your taste go elsewhere to read. Emma is neither, which makes her fall so tragic. Blame her innocence or romances she once read. This child just wants to feel loved.
5347937981	Madame Bovary es sobre la figura de la mujer y el hombre en medio de la realidad burguesa.Antes de empezar con mi reseña (que es un poco extensa) hay tres puntos importantes dentro de la obra dignos de análisis:1. La narrativa, ya que ella se caracteriza por dos cosas: la ironía situacional que la hay muchísima y los pasajes descriptivos que se apegan a ese movimiento realista que se busca recrear, donde hay puntos muy buenos y otros que cansan con toda la monotonía y el día a día de la vida rural del campo.2. La evidente crítica a un sistema burgués que no es correcto moralmente y que desborda una sucesión de hipocresía, convenciones sociales y política que castigan a sus participantes.3. Y por último pero no menos importante: Emma Bovary. De la cual es la que voy a hablar durante toda esta reseña y su complicada relación con los hombres y el entorno que la rodea.Advertencia: ¡Posibles spoiler!Ahora sí, Madame Bovary es una novela que en su tiempo fue una obra que generó muchísima polémica porque expone a lo largo de su extensión por medio de la vida de hombres burgueses, la mediocridad, la crueldad y la hipocresía masculina tomando a la vez como centro la figura de una mujer que busca bajo sus propios términos el significado del amor, la felicidad y la libertad de su vida personal, el poder manejar los hilos de su presente y su futuro a su antojo. Y lo hace de formas sociales no correctas y bien vistas.Y es que mediante la idealización de la protagonista y de las mujeres en general dentro de la sociedad, que deben cumplir ciertos parámetros y comportamientos muestra una cruda realidad social que la condena, la mantiene enjaulada, inconforme e infeliz. Flaubert construye una crítica a la burguesía como un constructo social y económico castigador en el que la mujer tiene un final trágico y los hombres en su mayoría mantienen el status quo.De hecho, desde que la novela inserta a Emma, esta se presenta como una mujer soñadora y romántica, que toma como expectativas llevar una vida igual que la que se ve reflejada en la literatura, en esos libros que devora con ansias. Emma es un personaje que tarde o temprano no sabrá medir esas expectativas con la realidad que está viviendo y que por mucho que desee una vida de ciudad, con amores apasionados, lujos, teatro, música, bailes, vestidos sofisticados, noticias y emoción sin límites, se encuentra muy lejos de cumplirlo porque es una burguesa que lleva una vida medianamente acomodada en el campo, donde debe enfrentarse a la monotonía, el aburrimiento, el hastío, la falta de acontecimientos y la falta de pasión y amor hacia su aburrido marido, el cual la desespera hasta el punto de vivir comparando su realidad con la expectativas que le generaron los libros.Es por eso mismo, que al no estar contenta con su presente, Emma busca en los brazos de otros hombres la felicidad que cree merecer, es una mujer que aunque caprichosa e infiel, al menos no se rinde ante lo que la sociedad le ha impuesto. Desde allí, empieza a romperse esa barrera y ella como mujer en la literatura es de esos pocos y contados casos en el cánon al salirse del típico actuar pasivo en la figura femenina. Y encima, el de ser una mujer correcta y ejemplar.Primero intenta una relación con Rodolphe sin saber que él no la ve como su igual sino como una conquista entre las tantas que ha tenido hasta que al final la deja sola y desamparada con sus ilusiones luego de haberle endulzado el oído. Y luego, si bien su segundo amante (León) es más parecido a ella porque está en su sintonía, ya que es un hombre que consume literatura y arte, le gusta la pintura, la música y la poesía (otro individuo fantasioso e igual de soñador que ella), al final ambos se aburren el uno del otro y este termina dándole la espalda por su posición social y laboral, que es más importante que una aventura.Luego Emma es engatusada por Lheureux, el comerciante de telas que no duda en hacer lo que esté en sus manos para embaucar por una espiral de deudas a la familia Bovary, especialmente a Emma y sus ganas de llevar una vida de lujos y excesos endulzándole el oído. La tienta con préstamos e intereses abusivos que los lleva a la ruina financiera, lo que demuestra el gran nivel de deshonestidad del personaje.Y otro personaje despreciable es Homais, un hombre que desde la llegada de la familia Bovary al pueblo quiso mostrarse como un hombre ejemplar e inteligente en muchos temas, tratando de sobresalir y de demostrar conocimientos y habilidades que nunca tuvo para ganarse la confianza del nuevo médico y codearse con las altas esferas sociales ganando renombre y ascenso económico. Una vez que el médico cae en ruinas (en parte por su culpa) y también daña su reputación no se acerca a él nunca más y como una amarga ironía el farmacéutico al final termina recibiendo y ganando una medalla de honor.Volviendo al punto de la protagonista, Emma solo quiere ser libre y por eso el concepto de libertad no es de extrañarse que ella lo encuentre en la figura de un hombre, ya que estos si bien en sociedad también son castigados por la moral, la mujer lo lleva mucho más peor. No es casualidad que dos escenas en el libro sean reveladoras, la primera de ella cuando se mira en un espejo y toma ciertos atributos estilísticos y físicos que acorde a los estereotipos de género debe llevar un hombre o que cuando está embarazada ella desee con todas sus fuerzas que ese bebé sea un niño para que cuando crezca como hombre tenga menos límites y ataduras que una mujer.Y es que existe un subtexto muy evidente en el que las mujeres están condenadas a ser infelices por las convenciones sociales, por eso cuando se dirige a Berta le dice "pobre hija", porque es mil veces preferible que hubiera nacido hombre y sabe lo que le deparará en un futuro, ya que ser mujer constriñe puertas, cierra oportunidades, te doblega y te encierra en una prisión con las manos esposadas y con cada paso cuidadosamente medido.Siguiendo ese hilo de pensamiento, es por eso mismo que la rebeldía de Emma para con el mundo y su realidad social, aquella de la que reniega es lo que la lleva a su propia autodestrucción. Y es que gracias a su falta de conformismo termina fracasando contra la irónica fuerza de los hombres burgueses y la realidad de esa sociedad, donde quienes al final terminan triunfando son todos ellos y a ella la dejan sola, utilizada, abandonada, estafada y en últimas: desesperada hasta querer morir.No es casualidad que luego del funeral de ella su esposo la llore y la recuerde, pero sus amantes duerman tranquilamente como si su existencia nunca les hubiera afectado en nada. Es más, la vida sigue su curso: Rodolphe vive, León se casa, el comerciante sale indemne y Homais logra su cometido alcanzando su renombre a costa de otros. Lo que deja a Emma en un final autodestructivo por rebeldía y exceso mientras que el resto se integra como si nada a esa realidad social que enfrentan.Ya como conclusión, la novela de Flaubert pone sobre la mesa como protagonista a una mujer que fue un escándalo en su tiempo por seguir sus propios intereses, dejando de lado la idealización de la mujer como una figura ejemplar y que solo debía contentarse con la vida que le tocó. Además de que hace una crítica a los valores burgueses, ya que describe el ascenso de la pequeña burguesía rural a través de la caracterización de varios de sus personajes principales: por un lado el aburrido y conformista marido de Emma, el comerciante manipulador con quien esta se endeuda, los amantes que al final siguen con su vida como si ella hubieran sido una piedra en el zapato y por último, el arribista e hipócrita farmacéutico. Todos ellos hombres que conforman un círculo de valores burgueses en cuyo interior se encontró enjaulada Emma Bovary, la víctima de un sistema que penaliza la emancipación de la mujer y la castiga psicológicamente hasta llevarla al suicidio.
326786777	Every sentence is a considered sentence. Every sentence has a purpose. You know, I read so much just-published contemporary so-called literary fiction that I forget sometimes how great books can be. I don’t think most writers understand that every sentence can be intentional and purposeful, and I think most readers have been lulled into not expecting more. There are probably a hundred books published a year that meet this high bar but the only way to find them is to quickly let go of the ones that are flabby and bleh, no matter what sort of real-time praise they get. I’m thinking there needs to be more intention in the writing I read for me to keep on with a book and not put it down. I could say this reread has set a high bar generally in what I’m going to read for some time to come. I’m sick of the blah-blah. Ok. That’s about it.
409233452	Reading and/the Romance/Adultery: A Moral for the Bored and Restless“Do not read as children do to enjoy themselves, or, as the ambitious do to educate themselves. No, read to live”—FlaubertOn my 25th birthday, I was shopping, in the cereal aisle, and suddenly broke down: I was a quarter century old, I was married, had been teaching in a small rural (provincial) parochial school for a few years, and I was bored and restless, terrified in a way no one else in my family or school seemed to be, that I would be stuck there the rest of my life. And maybe I was a little arrogant, too. A part of me—on the basis of some early success with publication—thought I might have a chance at being a much published and possibly famous Author of Literary Fiction. And I longed to travel, to expand my world. Why? I read novels that filled up my sense of the possibilities for my life, On the Road, A Farewell to Arms. I needed to go to Paris with Fitzgerald and Hemingway and drink wine with Gertrude Stein! And sure enough, I blew up my life for a few years in predictably and stupidly sad ways. But lived to read this story, Madame Bovary, a cautionary tale for the bored and restless, one of the greatest novels of all time in spite of the fact that it contains zero characters you can truly like or admire.And how does she get there, this selfish and self-satisfied Emma? In part through reading romances, a “sentimental education” that prepared her to believe she was destined for a more passionate life than the one she feared she was living in Provincial France, far from the life she wanted to live in Paris, the one of fashion, style, waltzing at balls with clever, handsome men. No one understood her and appreciated her for what she truly was and could be! Oh, there was Charles, her doting and dull husband, so ordinary, but if you increasingly see yourself as remarkable, you come to resent him. You can’t find Charles if you read romances! And religion is a kind of temporary escape for Emma, though not into a life of quiet devotion, but into aspects of religion that lead her close to a passionate life. Sure, there was religion, but that became as ultimately boring and tedious for her as Charles. Emma read romances and believed she was the main character of them:“She was the amoureuse of all the novels, the heroine of all the plays, the vague ‘she’ of all the poetry books.”“What better occupation, really, than to spend the evening at the fireside with a book, with the wind beating on the windows and the lamp burning bright. . . Haven't you ever happened to come across in a book some vague notion that you've had, some obscure idea that returns from afar and that seems to express completely your most subtle feelings?”“Deep down, all the while, she was waiting for something to happen. Like a sailor in distress, she kept casting desperate glances over the solitary waste of her life, seeking some white sail in the distant mists of the horizon. She had no idea by what wind it would reach her, toward what shore it would bear her, or what kind of craft it would be – tiny boat or towering vessel, laden with heartbreaks or filled to the gunwales with rapture. But every morning when she awoke she hoped that today would be the day; she listened for every sound, gave sudden starts, was surprised when nothing happened; and then, sadder with each succeeding sunset, she longed for tomorrow.”“She loved the sea for its storms alone, cared for vegetation only when it grew here and there among ruins. She had to extract a kind of personal advantage from things and she rejected as useless everything that promised no immediate gratification—for her temperament was more sentimental than artistic, and what she was looking for was emotions, not scenery.”And Emma impatiently waited for the kind of love she read about in books. She had a child with Charles, but this did not satisfy her. Too provincial, too ordinary, to be a mere mother. She needed more things, she needed to be surrounded by beauty, and beautiful things, and clever, gorgeous men. And she found them, twice in her life, two shallow, (somewhat) clever men, who also lived life for these clandestine affairs, for mystery, the challenge of not getting caught, for fantasy and imagination and sweet sensations. Love!“Love, she thought, must come suddenly, with great outbursts and lightnings,—a hurricane of the skies, which falls upon life, revolutionizes it, roots up the will like a leaf, and sweeps the whole heart into the abyss.”At one point she cries out to one of these men:“I’m your servant and your concubine! You’re my king, my idol! You’re good! You’re handsome! You’re intelligent! You’re strong!”But we see what he is thinking, a lover of many women, himself a more experienced taster of sweet illicit pleasures:“. . . Because licentious or venal lips had murmured the same words to him, he had little faith in their truthfulness; one had to discount, he thought, exaggerations that concealed commonplace affections; as if the fullness of the soul did not sometimes overflow in the emptiest of metaphors, since none of us can ever express the exact measure of our needs, or our ideas, or our sorrows, and human speech is like a cracked kettle on which we beat out tunes for bears to dance to, when we long to inspire pity in the stars.”It’s not gonna last with this boy, Emma. Let him go! He’s just cotton candy! And cheap at that, for all of his riches, his appreciation of her charms, and his chateau.So, does it sound like Emma will make you want to tear your heart out from frustration? Join the club! Millions of readers have loved to hate Emma for her shallow narcissism. A great beauty, pah! But trust me, this is one of the great novels of all time. How is it Shakespeare makes you just a little sorry for the selfish Macbeth, who destroys his life for ambition? By making him into a living, breathing human being, through ever-penetratingly gorgeous language. Flaubert, too, in creating one of the two great novels of adultery of the nineteenth century, creates a character you neither love nor admire, but you come to somehow care for. In describing with such great and sumptuous detail the life of beauty Emma so admires, we come to want it—just a bit? A lot?—for ourselves. We also have read and wanted more! The book makes it seem reasonable that someone might take the road Emma takes, and deliciously, he turns the mirror on us, readers, after all, who love Great Books that take us to distant lands—France!—and to people who live lives far richer than we can ever imagine. In the end, the chemist/pharmacist and the priest debate what novels one should read: Voltaire! A writer of comedies, to help us see that Emma’s story is, finally its own kind of comi-tragedy. And so we come full circle to reflect on what reading might be best for a richer, fuller life and not just for a shallow, sentimental education.I have read this more than a couple times, butI heard the great writer and translator Lydia Davis had recently translated this book, so I listened and read along to her somewhat different, elegant, lean translation of this story. Doubled my pleasure. Read it! Emma is not as sympathetic as Anna Karenina—you don’t quite fall in love with Emma as you do with Anna, but you do fall in love with Flaubert’s rich language. It’s not so much a romance as it is a reflection on romance, and yes, sure, I learned, I reflected on my own life through it, as great novels—versus escapist books that are fun and good for their own purposes—are supposed to help one do. Happy ending for me! But poor, poor Emma, and her doting Charles.
1837232049	Le podría haber dado perfectamente 5 estrellas, porque es una obra maestra de la Literatura por méritos propios... pero Emma Bovary. Emma Bovary es probablemente uno de los personajes más insufribles que nadie ha creado nunca. Y la cuestión es que su mera existencia eleva la novela a la categoría de clásico. Emma Bovary es real. De hecho, todo el mundo conoce a una Emma Bovary: una pava infantil y melodramática que no sabe lo que quiere y se cree más lista que nadie y a la que todo el mundo engaña porque en realidad es más tonta que meter los dedos en el enchufe.Emma es un ser vivo, una persona. Una persona a la que me hubiera gustado estrangular en algunas partes de la novela.Aparte de eso, el libro tiene un ritmo sorprendentemente ágil para ser tan profuso en descripciones, y ello se debe a que las descripciones sirven para ambientar las escenas. Es una novela muy cinematográfica, hay momentos en que incluso ves el plano.También me sorprendió mucho el sentido del humor. Yo no soy muy aficionada al humor francés, pero lo cierto es que Flaubert tiene un tipo de humor que me gusta y le da un bienvenido toque de ligereza a una historia tan melodramática. Y no es que sea excesivamente melodramática, se podría decir que el autor incluso se muestra sobrio donde podría haberse dejado llevar, pero por supuesto tiene su carga dramática, es la historia que es.Con todo (especialmente la propia Emma) es un libro que he disfrutado mucho y me alegro de haber leído.
1402979122	I dedicate this review to my dear friends Will, Jeffrey and Sidharth, whose wise words have always inspired meSPOILERS "Did she not seem to be passing through life scarcely touching it, and to bear on her brow the vague impress of some divine destiny? She was so sad and so calm, at once so gentle and so reserved, that near her one felt oneself seized by an icy charm...But she was eaten up with desires, with rage, with hate. That dress with the narrow folds hid a distracted heart, of whose torment those chaste lips said nothing." If Emma Bovary had been born into another century, into our century, she could have been a great artist. It is arguable whether she has the talent, but she certainly has the soul. Her weakness could have been her strength in our times. Unfortunately, she lived in the XIX century society that didn’t encourage her sensitiveness, her gentleness, her highly emotional and romantic nature. Instead, she lived in one that did not tolerate passion, assertiveness and freedom of spirit and mind in women. (Her father sees her as useless and instead of trying to help her grow, develop, he is only too quick to find her a husband, and this husband and his mother go as far as forbidding her to read novels) When we long to be understood, to be happy, to be connected, we also long to be seen. For someone else to see what we ourselves cannot or don’t want to see. Sometimes we live on the edge of self-discovery and we only need a gentle push into the right direction. Emma waits, hopes to be saved, to be discovered, to be helped. Like all of us, she longes to be noticed and appreciated. "At the bottom of her heart she was waiting for something to happen. Like shipwrecked sailors, she turned despairing eyes upon the solitude of her life, seeking afar off some white sail in the mists of the horizon. Each morning, as she awoke, she hoped it would come that day; she listened to every sound, sprang up with a start, wondered that it did not come; then at sunset, always more saddened, she longed for the morrow." However, all those rudiments that could have resulted into something wonderful, were molded into something destructive. She is too obsessed, too possessed by her desires. Her romantic nature dives her to harsh judgementalism, she is condemned and renounces everyone and everything that falls short of her idea of perfection. She is a woman incapable of seeing nuances. She is a woman of extremities. Even her feelings are such. Both her joys and disappointments are to the max. "Accustomed to calm aspects of life, she turned to those of excitement. She loved the sea only for the sake of its storms, and the green fields only when broken up by ruins. She wanted to get some personal profit out of things, and she rejected as useless all that did not contribute to the immediate desires of her heart, being of a temperament more sentimental than artistic, looking for emotions, not landscapes." Would she have been happier had she found what she was looking for? And what does she look for? A man with the imagination and passion her husband lacks and with the loyalty and trustworthiness her lovers fail to provide. One might argue that Charles offers her at least the latter. But I don’t think so. Does he want her to be happy? Yes. Does he love her? Very much so. But love and connection aren’t the same thing. She condemnd him for being so very far away from her ideal and he condemns her by failing to be interested into the inner workings and struggles of her soul. He isn't even aware of them. He is a man satisfying himself with the ostensible. He isn't a man of deep thoughts and desires. This simplicity partially takes a good direction, because it results into a calm, amiable, trusting and optimistic nature, into a man needing a little to be happy. He is easily content. He is a man in denial. A man who needs a hurricane to wake him up. To me the two of them, while miles away from each other in other ways, are very much alike in their inability to see nuances. They are equally blind, equally self-absorbed. And they mutually destroy each other. "Charles’s conversation was commonplace as a street pavement, and every one’s ideas trooped through it in their everyday garb, without exciting emotion, laughter, or thought. A man, on the contrary, should he not know everything, excel in manifold activities, initiate you into the energies of passion, the refinements of life, all mysteries? But this one taught nothing, knew nothing, wished nothing. He thought her happy; and she resented this easy calm, this serene heaviness, the very happiness she gave him...If he had but wished it, if he had guessed it, if his look had but once met her thought, it seemed to her that a sudden plenty would have gone out from her heart, as the fruit falls from a tree when shaken by a hand. But as the intimacy of their life became deeper, the greater became the gulf that separated her from him." The same could be said for Rodolphe, who is too lost in his idea of women being weak, superficial and undeserving of his loyalty and affection. He falls in love with her, but fights with this love and his desire to give into it until the end. "Because lips libertine and venal had murmured such words to him, he believed but little in the candour of hers; exaggerated speeches hiding mediocre affections must be discounted; as if the fulness of the soul did not sometimes overflow in the emptiest metaphors, since human speech is like a cracked tin kettle, on which we hammer out tunes to make bears dance when we long to move the stars." He does not want to believe that Emma draws from a deeper well. Maybe too deep. Yet, would she have been happy had he stayed by her side, had he taken her away from her unhappy, lifeless marriage? I doubt it. "She did not know if she regretted having yielded to him, or whether she did not wish, on the contrary, to enjoy him the more. The humiliation of feeling herself weak was turning to rancour, tempered by their voluptuous pleasures. It was not affection; it was like a continual seduction. He subjugated her; she almost feared him." When we are too fixated on some purpose, if we reject everything and everyone else that falls short from the image we carry within ourselves, even if we do achieve our dream, we wouldn’t be able to appreciate the result. I have always believed that our ability to appreciate the grand things is build upon our ability to cherish the little ones. Is the ultimate goal the only goal? It is so for her. Only in the end, on her deathbed, she reveals a deeper, calmer, more compassionate, more conscientious side of her, which only shows that had she been given a chance, she could have been someone very, different. "So she had done, she thought, with all the treachery, and meanness, and numberless desires that had tortured her. She hated no one now; a twilight dimness was settling upon her thoughts, and, of all earthly noises, she heard none but the intermittent lamentations of this poor heart, sweet and distinct like the echo of a symphony dying away." We breathe life into others through both our happiness and our sorrow. We are always open to the former, but seldom to the latter. I see this book as one illustrating what happens to women stuck into society that suppresses them, smothers them, that pushes them into a corner and leaves them there to rot. Another person’s misery can be our own awakening. However, there are many who, like the characters in this novel, always choose to look the other way. And there are many who see human heart as something to step on and human misery as something to build upon. We all strive to build ourselves strong, but many believe that the best way to do so is by closing their hearts to human weakness and pain, including their own. But I believe that if we devoid ourselves of empathy, we deny ourselves happiness as well. My friend Will has told me more than once “It is important to let yourself feel the pain” My friend Jeffrey has told me "It is both weakness and strength' And my friend Sidharth has told me more than once, to be sensitive is to be vulnerable, but it is also to be alive. I believe that we are truly alive only when we have something/someone we would die for.Read count: 1
2959628531	This book! I'm so split on what I think. Firstly it's a typical classic, it's way longer than it needs to be and overly descriptive. Some chapters I'm really into it and others I'm looking around for any distraction. I found it hard to keep my attention from wandering while reading this book.Secondly, madam bovary! What a girl. I'm guessing she was the original bored desperate housewife? I kind of liked her, her inability to settle, her boredom, her disappointment with life, her need for something more exciting. Mixed feeling on this one so three stars, good in places but a bore in others, am glad I've finally read it though, that's another classic off the list.
51028870	The CCLaP 100: In which I read a hundred so-called "classics" for the first time, then determine whether or not they deserve the label. Madame Bovary is book #26 of the series.The story in a nutshell:Considered by nearly everyone to be one of the best novels ever written, French cynic Gustave Flaubert's 1857 Madame Bovary (originally published serially in 1856) is one of the first fiction projects in history to be as much a deep "character study" as a vehicle for simply propelling an exciting plot; it is an ultra-detailed look at an ultra-complex person, the Emma Bovary (nee Rouault) of the book's title, where the whole point is not just to learn what happens to her but what makes her tick in general. Because make no mistake, Bovary is one of the most complicated characters in the history of literature too, still able to ignite passionate arguments among fans to this day: some see her as a clearly sympathetic and very typical woman, forced into a whole series of awkward situations by a whole series of incompetent men in her life, just like such dunderheads have been doing to smart females for centuries; while others see her more like an unmedicated sufferer of bipolar disorder, constantly flip-flopping on what she wants out of life depending on what in particular she doesn't happen to have that particular moment, constantly adding unneeded drama to her life when bored and treating pretty much every single person around her like complete crap.Raised in a convent, a lover of erotica, desirous of an expensive urban lifestyle yet not very smart about money, it is this dichotomy of traits that keeps Bovary careening from one radically different situation to the next: first falling hard for her father's roving rural doctor (full-time "good guy" and hence impotent cuckold Charles Bovary), thinking that their marriage will finally bring her the sophisticated Paris life she's always dreamed of; then trying and failing at a domestic life as a small-town wife and mother, after it becomes clear that Charles prefers the dowdy provincial life of the northern French farmlands, leading to a hot-and-cold emotional affair with a young law student there named Leon; then a move to essentially one of the first large "suburbs" in France's history (the fictional mid-sized Yonville, not too far from Paris by carriage or rail, based on the real-life suburb of Ry), where she embarks on a much more serious affair with a major hater-playah named Rodolph; then an unceremonial dumping by Rodolph, after she offers to leave her husband for him and bring the kid along, leading to a short period again in her life as a pious born-again Christian; with all of that followed believe it or not by a reacquaintance with the now successful young urban lawyer Leon, leading to a sexually explicit "hotel afternoons in the big city" affair (the part of the book that led to its infamous obscenity trial when it first came out); which then finally leads to an ending whose details I'll leave a surprise, but let's just say results in ruin and/or death for nearly every freaking person involved. Oh, those French and their happy endings!The argument for it being a classic:Madame Bovary established so many firsts, its fans will argue, it's sometimes scary: not just the first novel ever to be written in the modern, pared-down "conversational tone" we know today, not just one of the first novels to complexly combine both character and plot development equally in one manuscript, but also one of the very first novels in history to establish the "Realist" school of thought, a set of conventions which now guide almost all contemporary novels being written (but more on that in a bit), all while ironically being a perfect example of a Victorian-Age Romantic novel as well, and of containing all the hallmarks that fans of Romanticism look for even while making vicious fun of them too. In fact, this book is almost like a freaky artifact from a future time that shouldn't actually exist, if you want to get technical about it; a book that reads exactly like a contemporary mainstream-lit character study, but published at the same time as the severely overwritten, overwrought, epistolary-style adventure tales and pseudo-science babble much more typical of the mid-1800s. It's not just important as a historical artifact (but more on that in a bit too), not just seminal to the arts in about a half-dozen different ways, but is still a surprisingly great read even 152 years later; nearly every novel being written today owes one aspect of its form or another to this ultra-important precedent, fans argue, making it the very definition of a literary "classic" that should still be picked up by every lover of great books out there.The argument against:Ironically, the only criticisms of Madame Bovary I could find seemed to argue that the book is just too well-written; that Flaubert created such a hyper-realistic emotional trainwreck, they ended up disgusted by her and couldn't even finish. "Ugh, that Emma, I can't stand her, she's so despicable," I saw one online critique after another say, none of these people apparently realizing that that's the whole point; that the entire purpose of this book existing is to present this ultra-flawed, many times legitimately despicable character, to examine what motivates her and how she can be so sympathetic at times too, to understand ourselves better and especially those parts of our own personalities we share with her.My verdict:So how exactly should we feel about Emma Bovary, anyway? Well, to ponder that question is to avoid the much more remarkable point -- that Flaubert managed to create such a magnificently complicated creature to begin with, one who can still inspire such enflamed debates about her character a full century and a half later. (And by the way, how dispiriting to finally learn that Tom Perrotta's novel Little Children, which I highly favorably reviewed here in 2007, owes much of its success to a rather literal rip-off of many of Madame Bovary's key points, all the way down to sometimes stealing entire scenes beat-for-beat. Sheesh, no wonder Perrotta's follow-up The Abstinence Teacher was such a miserable stinker; he had no seminal semi-forgotten public-domain classic to lean on that time.) Not to mention, concentrating on Bovary's sometimes abhorrent behavior ignores a much more important point -- that every single character in this novel is abhorrent, done so by Flaubert very deliberately. Let's not forget, the book is set in the years of France's so-called "July Monarchy," which in a simplified nutshell saw the creation for the first time in history of middle-class suburbanites; and like every other bitter artist in history, Flaubert despised middle-class suburbanites with every fiber of his being, and meant in many ways for Madame Bovary to be a devastating indictment of them all -- from the schizophrenic Emma to the facile Charles, from the jealous village pharmacist Homais to the weasely neighborhood merchant Lheureux. Let's always remember that Flaubert worked for decades on an epic called Bouvard and Pecuchet, which he always considered his perpetually-unfinished masterpiece; but that when it was finally released to the public posthumously in 1881, it turned out to be not much more than a massive unfocused rant, a grand satire concerning the utterly pathetic mediocrity of most human beings and the utter folly of ever thinking we will learn anything by studying history. Now that's a bitter French artist, my friend.But if this weren't enough, there's also the matter of the utterly remarkable language and structure used, which I now know for a personal fact because of doing this CCLaP 100 series is just so profoundly unlike any of the other novels that were being published at the same time; it really does feel like some freaky anomaly that shouldn't actually exist, snatched from the 1930s during the height of Early Modernism and somehow by time-machine accidentally left behind in the middle of the Victorian Age. (And even more remarkably, Flaubert himself wasn't particularly prolific or well-known, only finishing three other novels besides Bovary and all of them obscure even during his own lifetime.) This is why you hear so many people rave about this book's style, because it really is a perfect example of what the French call seeking le mot juste ("just the right word"); there are passages on display here that can instantly transport you in just a few paragraphs to a misty early evening in 19th-century northern rural France, before you even realize what's going on or that you'd left in the first place. And all of a sudden you've missed your bus, and you're standing on the streetcorner cursing Flaubert for being such an astounding writer in the first place.It's remarkable, I think, that this book lays the entire groundwork for the Realist school of literary thought, a full 50 years before Henry James and others even first came up with the English version of the term, and like I said nearly every mainstream-lit novel written today gets at least some of its cues from it; because much like the "Socratic method," Realism has become so permeated in our culture that we don't even realize anymore that that's what it is when we see it, with the entire thing essentially boiling down to the idea of writing stories in a "realistic" fashion, as if we were invisible ghosts hovering over the shoulders of the characters and quietly observing the events of the story as they actually happen (now known as "omniscient narration," and the basis behind 95 percent of all novels written). But it's also true what its fans say, that it doubles as a perfect Romantic novel too, a different school of literary thought with goals that sometimes clash with those of Realism; like the best of Victorian-Age literature, Madame Bovary too places great emphasis on emotions, feelings, passion, madness, and all the other great hallmarks of being an alive human being, and also like all great Victorian novels it too features as a character a buffoonish adherent of rationalism (in this case, the constantly pontificating pharmacist Homais), a holdover "true believer" from the 1700s Enlightenment who both the Romantics and Realists could agree on regarding their mutual hatred. (Stupid fun-hating scientists!)Although I'm only about a quarter of the way through the CCLaP 100 as of the writing of this particular review, I think it's safe to say that this is going to turn out to be one of my absolute favorites of the entire series, and it's simply astonishing in my opinion how well it's held up now over the last 150-odd years. It's a standard-bearer for sure of this entire series, one of only a handful of books in existence that nearly everyone agrees is a classic, which then helps us make the relative determination as well for much more troublesome candidates. If you're to read only a handful of books in the CCLaP 100 series, do make sure to make Madame Bovary one of them.
2328160338	One can read this novel as many times as one likes. Each time I find new 'things' in it. Since so much has been written about this book that I re-read it again. I reflect on what I have read, feel mesmerized, and intrigued by the text. Of course, I take other writers' critique of this book seriously. There is this whole body of work that rests on Flaubert's writing. I have read less of Flaubert, but I read a lot about him. It seems like one cannot talk about writing without talking about him. Some of these writings on him are exemplary because they read like literature. Flaubert himself has written reams of his own grueling struggles with the written word, his endless endeavors to get 'it' right – a word, a line, a paragraph– went on for days.If I remember right, he said somewhere that he wants to write a book about 'nothing' – a great ambition, indeed. He supposedly intended to write something, so that form and content merge fully and produce an effect one only gets from the purest form of music. All these exquisite pursuits of Flaubert do get reflected in Madame Bovary.However, if I leave out what he has achieved in his writings, and just focus on his characters, I find it hard not to question certain aspects of MB. Since the reputation of this book is so formidable, one hesitates to say what one Really thinks about this book. For instance, right in the first chapter, we see Charles on his first day at school. He acts in a ludicrous manner and attracts negative attention from his teacher and classmates. A few pages later, we see him married and practicing his profession. He marries a woman older than himself, anything but for love.Charles becomes even more irritating when one sees him visiting Emma's house to treat her father. These visits are taken so often and with such passionate urgencies that I find it hard to believe that it is the same man whom I saw as a boy on his first day at school. Here, with Emma, he seems more like a character from 'Lawrence.' He mildly exudes something of 'Vronsky' from Tolstoy's Anna Karenina.Emma, on the other hand, at least in the beginning, could be someone from George Eliot: a farmer's daughter, simple, hardworking, and responsible. And as we know her more, especially after marrying Charles, she is completely transformed. The farmer's daughter now has airs of someone from Jane Austen. As the novel unfolds, toward the second half of the book, she becomes full-fledged Anna Karenina of Tolstoy except that Anna in the hands of Tolstoy always remains Anna from the start till she dies, just like Vronksy remains Vronsky till the end.As we see more and more of Emma, we see Charles almost receding, and again resembling the boy that we saw on his first day at school. Now it is not the Charles who married his first wife for practical purposes, it is not the same Charles who almost seduced Emma and took her as his wife after the death of his first wife. Going through all this requires certain qualities (or a certain slyness), a certain character that hardly matches with his post-marriage life with Emma. He was absolutely oblivious to Emma's manipulations, to her cheating.Half through the book, I felt like I am in another country. The early Emma has gone, the early Charles transformed. Am I reading the same book?Some situations are so difficult to believe because they appear contrived. Emma repeatedly gets beguiled by men who, in one way or the other, resemble the super attractive heroes of literature– let us say all these charmers, who chase Emma in MB, remind, to varying degrees, Vronsky of Anna Karenina. However, in Flaubert, the stylistic features take over the characterization.The only way in which I have enjoyed MB is to read it for its lines and paragraphs. One must not think about who is doing what, who is saying what, and asking oneself if this is real. How can this be? Why cannot Emma do this? How can the doctor Charles be so foolish? One has to avoid all that to enjoy the book. Maybe that was what Flaubert set out to achieve in the first place. He wanted us to notice him, only Him. And we did.
991985265	Emma Bovary is one of my new favourite women in fiction. God she's such a BAMF. She's literally Beyoncé of the 19th century. This is how heroines are meant to be written! (Hear that Jane Austen you god awful woman?!) This is the story of a woman who gets married to the most boring man ever and decides, "fuck this, this guy's a wet blanket, I'm gonna have some adulterous affairs, yay!". It's really good, read it.
3933644621	إلى الملولين جدا وكارهي الكلاسيكيات واللي مش هيقرأوا هذه الرواية وأي حد معدي بالصدفة: يومك لذيذ وبعد.. عبّاسط حمودة .Ft باتيستوتا.
156502665	Vladimir Nabokov, somewhere, I think it was in an interview reprinted in Strong Opinions, spoke of coming across his father's copy of Madame Bovary and finding a note scrawled inside: "the unsurpassed pearl..." I agree with that assessment.
1499412350	Why was her life so inadequate? Why did everything she leaned on instantly crumble into dust? These were the questions tormenting Emma (Madame Bovary) in her solitude that she never expected to exist in her nuptial life of which she dreamed. Yet, the gaps widened. The barriers grew stronger."A man, at least is free; he can explore the whole range of the passions, go wherever he likes, overcome obstacles, savor the most exotic pleasures. But a woman is constantly thwarted. Inert and pliable, she is restricted by her physical weakness and her legal subjection. Her will, like the veil tied to her hat with a cord, quivers with every wind; there is always some desire urging her forward, always some convention holding her back."The solitude, she was forced to invent for her, had soon become unbearable. Is it the city life she was longing for? There are traces to positively acknowledge this question. But this is not the reason for the entirety of her distress. There must be something or someone she is really longing for."Don’t you know there are some souls that are constantly tormented? They need dreams and action, one after the other, the purest passions, the most frenzied pleasures, and it leads them to throw themselves into all sorts of fantasies and follies."Was she a sacrifice to her marriage? A woman who had imposed such great sacrifices on herself certainly had a right to indulge in a few whims. She remembered the adulterous women from novels she read and their amorous adventures, imagining herself to be the heroine of her romantic adultery and victimizing herself to "Women like that ought to be horsewhipped!". But fantasies fooled her. Follies tormented her. Alas! Heroes left her, once they grew tired of her feminine refinements."Would this misery last forever? Was there no escape from it? And yet she was certainly just as good as all those other women whose lives were happy! She had seen duchesses at * who had dumpier figures and cruder manners than she, and she cursed God’s injustice..."Is she to be blamed for her distress? Are not those princely guys who entered her life, uninvited, and ravished her dreams, even distantly responsible for her self-torment? or Can we just call it as an ill-fate of a wretched soul? The author strictly prohibits you from drawing any conclusion or even making any inference from this story brimming with sad tears which touch the nuptial rings on the delicate fingers of the fragile beings. This is just the account of Madame Bovary. The ordeals of poor Monsieur Bovary are inexpressibly sad. Hence, better not expressed in words or emotions or any form. God save their daughter Berthe! Period!Movie - Warning:Please don't see the movie and underrate this excellent book. It is really disgusting how someone can badly mess up a story like this one. I just don't get it. You have a written script and why can't you make a movie as it is? or If you want to change the story totally or make it meaningless, why to use the title? Meh! I would happily call this movie as "Confessions of a shopaholic - 2" or something like that, given a chance. Notes on translationI didn't find any major difference between the translation of Geoffrey Wall (Penguin Classics) and Lydia Davis (Penguin Deluxe). However, Davis' translation is found to be easier to read and have better words at certain important places. But, when it comes to the question of paying more (Deluxe Editions are expensive. At least, here in my country, they are!) for a better widely acclaimed translation, I have to say that I am little disappointed. Neverthless, it is a keeper!
646994007	In Which a Dreamy Scheming Seamstress Chickababe Gets Entangled With Various Members of the Professions, the Merchant Class, Money Lenders, the Landed Gentry and the Aristocracy in a Quest for a Life She Does Not HaveThe setting of “Madame Bovary” is one of Realism. Real life goes on around Emma. People work. They provide services. They buy and sell commodities. They borrow and lend money. They repay debts or collect unpaid debts. They get married. They have children and educate them. Their children move away and start families of their own. This is the way of all flesh. Yet, for all of the Realism, the novel is really (or also) about something else. It’s about the desire for love and happiness, the jewels in this setting. Emma is rebellious, irreverent, impatient, difficult, disillusioned, capricious. She craves bliss, passion, intoxication, feverish abandon, voluptuous pleasure, joyful effervescence, and succumbs to “the ecstatic transports of adultery”. She wants to be “the beloved of every novel, the heroine of every drama, the ‘she’ of every poem.” She has a “vain longing for a more sublime pleasure.” She aspires to art and beauty in the face of life’s science. Determined not to be a work of Romanticism, Flaubert’s novel dismantles the effect of Romanticism on real people, well, at least one real person, Emma. However, just as Flaubert was trying to avoid an excess of Romanticism, he was protesting against an excess of Realism. Romanticism could prove fatal, but the Realism of contemporary bourgeois capitalist society had proven to be boring, in effect, a premature death. Emma confronted the harshness of modern life by clinging to the Romanticism that she believed would help her survive Reality. She clung to the world promoted by Romance Fiction. This Fiction created a fantasy world that she aspired to. At the time, Flaubert and his friends saw it as outmoded. Who could have guessed that it would become not just a mainstream element of capitalist society, but one that sustains, not challenges, its illusions about itself? In our contemporary real life, people could not and would not work, buy, sell, borrow, repay, etc (i.e., be consumers), unless they had these fantasies. If within the fabric of “Madame Bovary” Romanticism and Realism confronted and opposed each other, then what eventually emerged in modern society was a synthesis that preserved both in a perpetual death grip. In both Fiction and Reality, they are its warp and weft. Each needs the other to survive, even if the host, Emma, us, might die in the process. There’s a sense in which the novel doesn’t just anticipate Modernism, but it anticipates Post-Modernism or, at least, Meta-Fiction. Emma’s world-view is taken over and subjugated by the expectations and conventions of Romantic Fiction. She allows it to govern the direction of her real life (within the novel). This relationship with literature becomes part of the subject matter of the novel. It’s concerned with the influence of previous novels on one of its own characters. As a result, the novel positions itself against all of its predecessors. It adopts the stylings of Romantic Fiction, while simultaneously subverting it. It draws a line in the sand, implicitly challenging the past to cross the line, and then turns to the future. What it sees is not necessarily positive. Flaubert does not position himself as a God-like narrator whose characters are a vehicle for Time or Fate to progress society on its journey towards some happy ending. Flaubert uses “free indirect narration” to enable us to learn a little something about what is going on in everybody’s minds. Earlier, he had written, “the artist in his work should be like God in the universe, present everywhere and visible nowhere.” Thus, while Flaubert composed and is present in his work of fiction, he is invisible, and the novel’s authority derives partly from the impression that it is simply documenting what the characters have brought upon themselves or, from a more political viewpoint, what society had done to them. It's difficult to sympathise much with Emma as some sort of prototypical strong, passionate, sensitive, sensual woman. She is a victim of her own deluded sentimentalism and desire. Emma was wasted in and by her life. She was a “stupid girl” in the same way that Mick Jagger would explain his dissatisfaction in his song by that name, “I wasn't in a good relationship. Or I was in too many bad relationships.” Emma wasn’t happy with her marital relationship, and in seeking something better, she fell into too many bad ones. So, Emma is a warning to us. She died so that we might live, so that feminism might live, and so that women might love genuinely, passionately and realistically. She died so that neither woman nor man nor their relationships might be destroyed by their fantasies. She was a reality check designed to keep our reality in check. To paraphrase Sartre (who was writing about Flaubert himself), I would like you to feel, understand, and know Emma’s character both as totally individual and totally representative of her (and perhaps our?) times. In so far as she is representative, she is also representative of men, who can equally be unrealistic. It’s possible that this was what Flaubert had in mind when he remarked, “Madame Bovary, c’est moi!” Perhaps, she is not just Flaubert, but all of us. Of course, Realism without Romanticism can be a dry and humourless and mechanical affair. Perhaps, then, the moral of Flaubert’s tale is that Realism needs to be a bit more Romantic, and Romanticism needs to be a bit more Realistic? Two thirds of the way through, Emma speculates that, if "before the defilement of marriage and the disillusionment of adultery, she could have set down her life upon some great, solid heart, then virtue, tenderness, desire and duty would all have been joined together, and she would never have descended from such lofty felicity...[but] she knew, now, how paltry were the passions exaggerated by art." Still, even this vision depends on the existence of some "great, solid heart." And the realisation comes too late. Earlier, Charles Bovary’s first wife had suggested that “a tonic for [my] health and a little more love” would be adequate. Not everybody will be content with this prescription. It seems to counsel us to make do with what we've got, but it’s practical advice and not a bad start. Either way, we need both fuel and a flame to light and maintain a fire. SOUNDTRACK:Bettie Serveert - "Attagirl"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ge40nx...VERSE:LoveseatOn a bench seatIn the arbor,They made love withCarefree ardour.A Box at the Opera[In the Words of Flaubert]Quite unable to refrain,Emma watched from high aboveA nice young dandy struttingAbout the parterre, restingThe palm of his yellow gloveOn the gold knob of his cane.Rodolphe Boulanger Weighs Up Emma[A Haiku in the Words of Flaubert]She's gasping for loveLike a carp gasps for waterOn a kitchen bench.Young LeonLeon’s long, fine eyelashesMade him seem so handsome.His bearing radiatedA candor so exquisite.The smooth skin of his cheeks flushedLight red with desire for her.She longed to feel his kissesAnd hoped that he might visit.Edgar LagardyWhat audienceCould not be awed,Watching the star,Whom all adored,Outraged lover,The role he scored,Jealous, angry,Striding towardsHis enemyAcross the boards,While brandishing His naked sword?Emma Bovary’s Ode to Jay Gatsby[A Meta-Fiction Dedicated to Gary]I know it might seem crazy:If only you’d been near,You alone could have had me.We’d be alive, my dear,Instead of that bitch, Daisy.An Hypothesis Concerning the Apothecary[Inspired by a Sologknigian Thread](view spoiler)[Any apothecaryWho’s worth his salt and petreWould be able to divineWhat it was that Homais made,Helped by his rock-hard pestle,Inside his petit mortar.Lest his balm did not sufficeTo cure hysteria,He studied “Conjugal Love”,The skilled work of a surgeon,Procuring paroxysms Via digital techniques.Without a doctor’s permit,The magistrate determinedHis practised consultationIn the back room of his storeNot to be innocuous,Hence he came to be struck off.His treatment, now you know why,It worked a charm for Emma,Creating an appetiteFor stimulus that no oneHusband, aided by Homais,Could aspire to satisfy.Well, this newfound craving,It was to be her downfall.It’s sad, because she would stillBe alive today, if she Had had the wherewithal,To tell Homais to fuck off. (hide spoiler)]
867400619	هي الرواية الخالدة , التي وضعت بداية جديدة لفن الرواية بصفة خاصة وللأدب بصفة عامة , فلوبير لم يكتب مجرد نَص روائي مميز , بل كتب مفترق طرق للأدب , فيقال الرواية قبل (مدام بوڨاري) والرواية بعدها.لطالما كنت من المنبهرين بالأعمال التي تناقش الضعف الإنساني , فهي تُقدم لك الإنسان بسليقته وما جُبل عليه , تقدم لك واقع الحباة وما تفرضه علينا المشاعر الطارئة وكيف أننا نُخدع وندعي مثالية زائفة في حين أن التجربة تكن لها كلمتها العليا .الرواية هي (آنا كارنينا) الفرنسية وشبيهتها إلى حد بعيد , هي الرواية التي تجد شبيه لها فى كل ثقافة وكل لغة , فكانت من العالمية أن تركت بصمتها القوية على مختلف المجتمعات .عن الرواية : لم يمهلك الكاتب كثيرًا لكي تلتقط أنفاسك , فقد وضعك في مواجهة مباشرة مع شخصياته وأحداثه الروائية , ملمًا بكل الجوانب يقدم لك الكاتب عمله , فيقدم لك وصف بليغ ومن أكمل ما يكون عن بيئة الأحداث ويقدم تأريخ مجتمعي متميز لتلك الفترة .عمق نفسي من أروع ما يكون : فشارل بوڨاري يعيش معك وتعيش معه في كل فترات حياته ,فندما يولد يجعلك تراه يلعب وكيفية تعامل أمه وأبيه معه , وعندما يدخل المدرسة يجعلك تلميذ فى فصله تناكفه وتشاغبه وهو صامد على مدار مراحل تعلميه وحتى عندما يفشل يجد فى أمه حائط يقويه ويجعله يعبر مرحلة فشله , وعندما يتزوج زيجته الأولى : ينقل لك معاناته ومدى الاضطراب النفسي الذي وقع له واحساسه بالخديعة وعندما يصبح أرمل تستنشق معه نسيمحرية ما , وعندما يتزوج الزيجة الثانية تشفق عليه وتعطف ,ولكن لا يخلو الإشفاق من احتقار خفي تعجز عن منعه , ولكن لحظات حبه لزوجته وتعلقه بها تبث في نفسك شئ من السعادة .أما (إيما أو مدام بوڨاري ) فتقف أمامها عاجزًا , فلقد عجزت إلا عن حب آنا كارنينا الروسية ولكني فشلت في حب إيما بوڨاري ولا أدري أهو تعمد من الكاتب أم تحيّز شخصي تجاهها , ورغم الطبيعة الإنسانية في الميل إلى العطف على الخاطئين من بني البشر أحيانًا , إلا أني فشلت في هذه الحالة .ولكن لنصبر قليلًا ونضع انفسنا فى مكان الزوجة , ونتفكر في ذنبها وما عانته ونحاول الوضول إلى الخطيئة الرئيسة في الموضوع , أهو الطموح الزائد أم الرغبة العنيفة في حياة معينة رسمتها مخيلتها , أم هو الضعف الإنساني ؟؟؟نجح الكاتب بكل براعة في أن ينقل لك معاناة شخصياته ويجعلك تتأثر بأحداثهم (شخصيا بكيت في فصل موت مدام بوڨاري تأثرًا وحزنًا على حال زوجها ولعى نهايتها المآساوية) ورأيت فى هذا الفصل قمة ابداع الكاتب .فى المجمل : العمل عن الضعف والرغبة الزائفة والخديعة التي يقع فيها المرء نتيجة لغشاوة عواطفه , مع دمج ممتع لطبيعة المجتمع وعرض لبعض وجهات النظر المختلفة بحيث ينقلك إلى ظروف المكان وزمانه .وفي النهاية : يا كل امرأة رسمت في خيالها الحياة المثالية تمهلي , ويا كل أنثى رأت فى رجل ما حلمها المنشود تريثي , فخلف الباب مغامرة والنفس ضعيفة وغريبة ولا تُؤمن تصرافتها , فلا تحملِ نفسك أكثر مما تستطيع.العمل ترجمة أستاذنا محمد مندور وكانت ترجمة مميزة شاملة دلت عن علم واسع ومعرفة بالمجتمع الروائي , وتدل على عبقرية النص الفرنسي .وكعادة المجتمعات فى عصور الظلام : نرى إناس يضعون أنفسهم مكان الآلهة فيجرمون هذا ويعاقبون ذلك , و وقت ما نُشرت الرواية تصدى البعض ورفع دعوى قضائية ضد الكاتب ودار نشره متهما إياهم بالفجور وإشاعة الفحشاء , وكانت قضية شهيرة قام مندور بعرض كافة مرافعاتها من كل الاطراف المعنبية بها وكذلك حكم البراءة , كل ذلك فى جزء خاص من الطبعة التي قرأتها .
1736335280	For one of the most influential novels ever written, Madame Bovary is an understated affair. Flaubert is courageous in his treatment of female marital dissatisfaction, though I wish his Emma were able to act with a little more intelligence. Her dissatisfaction and desire for emotional fulfillment are perfectly understandable given her societal and personal circumstances, but her selfishness, recklessness and stupidity erase much of the sympathy one might have for her. Her husband is a pathetic character; a man who is constant and dedicated to a marital ideal, while neglecting the reality of his wife as a living, breathing person. I really did feel for him in the end. Though neither character is particularly admirable, the culpability lies less in their personal failings than in the norms of sexual separation and emotional repression that thrust Charles and Emma unprepared into each other's lives. What could Charles Bovary know about women, and what could Emma really understand about marriage; about herself? Despite the controversy, I find it hard to believe this novel could have enticed anyone to commit adultery. It's about as good a deterrent as I've read.
3810573549	★★★★★Esta novela fue publicada por entregas en 1856, supuso uno de los puntos de referencia del realismo. Una obra de las más influyentes de la literatura francesa que fue modificada y censurada varias veces y que creó mucha controversia y polémica. Hacía muchos años que deseaba leerla y aunque tiene pasajes densos es un libro de un valor incalculable.La historia comienza narrando la infancia de Charles Bovary, como se ve forzado a estudiar la carrera de medicina y posteriormente es casaso con una viuda. Es tras la pérdida de su esposa que Charles conoce a Emma. Este queda total y perdidamente enamorado de ella y al cabo de un tiempo se convertirá en su esposa.A partir de ese momento, la trama gira alrededor del personaje de Emma Bovary. Es una mujer muy avanzada a su época, soñadora, caprichosa y sumamente inconformista pues tiene una idea idílica de las relaciones amorosas y de pareja que no es lo que Charles le ofrece. Es entonces cuando comenzamos a ver la verdadera cara de esta protagonista tan complicada y maravillosa.El estilo de Flaubert es exquisito, sus detalladas descripciones brindan una experiencia lectora que lejos de aburrir logran darle al escrito una belleza incalificable. El lenguaje escogido es digno de prosa poética, tiene una sutileza y elegancia que eleva la obra. Además trata temas de forma crítica como es la religión (siendo este un libro prohibido por la iglesia católica) y la burguesía francesa del siglo XIX.Definitivamente esta es una obra maestra, una muestra del abismo que hay entre el deseo y la realidad. Nos brinda una de las mejores protagonistas que dista mucho de ser esa mujer y madre que la sociedad considera correcta. A pesar de no conectar con sus actos, ni entender parte de sus sentimientos y pensamientos, he terminado empatizando enormemente con ella.
5766689243	نمیدونم چند روز گذشت ولی مادام بوآری هرروز صبح قبل از دانشگاه همراه من بود و ترسی رو بهم القا کرد که شاید بارها راجع بهش فکر کرده بودم.اگر هیچ وقت تو زندگی خوشحالی رو پیدا نکرد چی؟اما برای من شخصیتی بود که در آن واحد میتونستم دوستش نداشته باشم و دلم براش بسوزه. رنج و استیصالش رو درک کنم و بخوام بدونم سر انجامش چی میشه.اما معتقدم اینکه در رنج باشی خیلی بهتر از اینه که بعد از سالها متوجه دروغین بودن تمام احساسات و زندگیت بشی.1403/07/269:34 A.M
3697766519	.جنون امر کلیما امر کلی را در فلسفه پی گرفته‌ایم و معمولاً از منظر عقل و منطق، به آن نگریسته‌ایم. چه در جریان ترجمه قرن دوم هجری به بعد که با یونان آشنا شدیم، و چه در دوره معاصر، تنها از همین زاویه به آن خیره شده‌ایم و نمودهای محدودی از آن را دیده‌ایم. ما حتی دریچه علم را هم برای نگریستن به امر کلی چندان معتبر ندانسته‌ایم و هنگام رفتن سراغ آن، بیشتر به دنبال قدرت و کارآمدی بوده‌ایم. در حالی که پس از مواجهه ما با دنیای جدید و به ویژه پس از تشکیل حکومت پهلوی، ما در همه شئون زندگی با امر کلی روبه‌رو هستیم؛ البته بدون آن که ببینیمش. ما توانِ باز کردن دریچه‌های مختلف به آن را نداریم درحالی که متأثر از آن زندگی می‌کنیم. «رمان» یکی از مهمترین نمودهای امر کلی در دنیای حاضر، بوده و هست اما ما رد پای «کلی» را در آثار نویسندگان خارجی ندیده‌ایم. این ندیدن‌ها باعث شده دچار تحلیل‌های اشتباه شویم و در فهم مقولات مدرن دچار توهم بشویم. به خصوص در جایی که با مفاهیم سابقه‌دار روبه‌رو بوده‌ایم، بسیار به بیراهه رفته‌ایم. یکی از مهمترین این مفاهیم گمراه‌کننده در رمان؛ «عشق» بوده و هست. ما درک نمی‌کردیم و نمی‌کنیم که وقتی نویسنده‌ای خارجی از «عشق» می نویسد، با آن به مثابه امر کلی درگیر است. برعکس، ما عشق را به مثابه امری یکتا خوانده‌ایم و می‌خوانیم همان گونه که در سنت ادبی ما بالیده و شاخ و برگ پیدا کرده. ما دلیل خودکشی «آناکارنینا» را نمی‌فهمیم چون صحنه‌های پرشکوه همراهی او و ورونسکی را نوعی رستگاری یا لااقل زمینه آن می‌پنداریم. ذهن ما به «اتحاد عاشق و معشوق زیر سایه عشق» تکیه دارد و خیال ما از فریب عشق در خفاست. مگر عشق هم فریب می‌دهد؟ عشقی که ما در سنت ادبی‌مان می‌شناسیم، نه. نزد ما عشق و صدق همزادند و حتی از یک جوهرند. ما متوجه نمی‌شویم که چطور «عشق به مثابه امر کلی» فریب می‌دهد، زیرا هیچ مصداقی توان حمل همه سنگینی امر کلی را ندارد. رابطه کلی و جزئی لغزنده است. جزئی از آنجا که نمودِ کلی است آن را باز می‌تاباند، و از آنجا که همه آن نیست (چون تنها سایه‌ای از آن است) آن را پوشیده نگه می‌دارد. به همین دلیل کلی در هر مصداق طلوعی دارد و غروبی. خودکشیِ زنی اخلاق‌مدار چون آنا یک ضرورت است برای غروب «عشق به مثابه امر کلی»، همچون خیانت او که یک ضرورت بود برای طلوع «عشق به مثابه امر کلی»؛ هیچ‌کدام در حوزه انتخاب او نبود.یکی از بهترین رمان‌هایی که این طلوع و غروب را در برابر ما به نمایش می‌گذارد، «مادام بوورای» فلوبر است. داستان این زن به گونه‌ای نیست که ذهن ایرانی ما بتواند آن را به راحتی چونان «عشق به مثابه امر یکتا» بخواند. او سه معشوق دارد و در هر رابطه نیز به‌تمامه معشوق است. روایت فلوبر به ما اجازه نمی‌دهد یکی از آن مصداق‌ها را اصل در نظر بگیریم و دو تای دیگر را مجازی بدانیم. فلوبر ما را با سه مصداق از عشق در «یک زندگی» روبه‌رو کرده است تا «عشق به مثابه امر کلی» را واضح و عیان ببینیم. روایت فلوبر از هر سه عشق چنان پرشور و در عین حال همسطح است که برای فهم قصه، ما چاره‌ای جز کنار گذاشتن فهم کهن‌مان از عشق و نزدیک شدن به دیدگاه غربی نداریم. شخصیت‌پردازی اِما چنان خوب انجام شده که ما به عینه متوجه می‌شویم او در پیِ «عشق» است و هربار نزد کسی می‌جویدش، اما به چنگش نمی‌آورد. چرا به چنگ نمی‌آورد؟ چون اساساً امر کلی در زندگی زمان‌مند دنیوی در دسترس نیست. عشق نیز چونان مفاهیم کلی دیگر، در هر مصداق طلوعی دارد و غروبی. برای همین وقتی در پایان داستان، زمانی که بوواری برای تن‌فروشی سراغ رودولف می‌رود، از او پاسخ منفی می شنود. آن دو زمانی «چیزی» به حساب می‌آمدند که برای طلوع عشق برگزیده شده بودند ولی حالا هیچ نیستند.«هرچه بود خوشبخت نبود، هرگز احساس خوشبختی نکرده بود. این نابسندگی زندگی از چه بود، از چه ناشی می‌شد این که به هرچه تکیه می‌کرد درجا می‌گندید؟... اگر به راستی در جایی انسانی نیرومند و زیبا وجود داشت، انسانی نستوه، سرشار از شور و در عین حال طرافت، با قلب یک شاعر و چهره یک فرشته، که چنگ به دست داشت و رو به آسمان مدیحه‌های نکاحی می‌خواند، اگر وجود داشت چرا اِما اتفاقی به او برنمی‌خورد؟ آه! چه خیال محال! به راستی که هیچ چیز ارزش جست‌وجو نداشت؛ همه چیز دروغ بود! هر لبخندی خمیازه‌ای از ملال را پنهان می‌کرد و هر شادی‌ای لعنتی را، هر لذتی چندشش را، و از بهترین بوسه‌ها چیزی جز میل تحقق‌ناپذیرِ خوشیِ بزرگتری روی لب‌ها نمی‌ماند.»فهم خودکشی مادام بوواری تنها از مسیر درک این تکرار قابل فهم است، تکراری که زندگی را به بیهودگی می‌کشاند. مادام بوواری نمی‌تواند چونان سیزیف بار حکمِ تکرار را به دوش بکشد، همچون همه انسان‌های مادی که چنین توانی ندارند. پذیرش تکرار تنها در افسانه‌ها ممکن است، جایی که امر کلی صورت ذهنی دارد نه مادی. نگاهِ سنتی ما به امر کلی، که آن را فقط در عالم ذهن می‌جسته، امکانِ درک این تکرار را از ما گرفته است. ما تکرار این جهانی را و اساساً زندگی را، در نسبت با اراده‌ای یکتا و به مثابه تجلی می‌فهمیم به همین دلیل درکی از «جنونِ امر کلی» نداریم. عقل نزد ما رو سوی عالمِ بالا دارد و امر کلی را آنجا در می‌یابد. ما مصداق‌ها را با «میل و عشق» درک می‌کنیم که فرای عقل و جنون، ضد و ند را در خود جمع می‌کند.در این دنیا، جایی که ظرفیت و قواعدش دائرمدار ماده تعین پیدا کرده، هیچ چاره‌ای از طلوع و غروب نیست. مرگ و زندگی همزاد هم‌اند. «عشق به مثابه امر کلی» نمی‌تواند تولد و مرگ را با هم نشان ندهد. دست شستن از یکی، روگرداندن از دیگری است. به خلافِ «عشق به مثابه امر یکتا» که متحد جاودانگی است و از صداقت و رستگاری جدایی‌ناپدیر است.
1872607154	داستان تلخی بود...از اون تلخی های زننده ای که از حقیقت محض سرچشمه می گیرند***اگر رنج های ما به حال کسی سودی داشت می توانستیم به نام این که فداکاری می کنیم خود را دلداری دهیم
2022873334	The story of Emma Bovary, an adept reader of romantic novels, facing marriage and the dullness of provincial life in Normandy. This is an emblematic novel for a range of different reasons : its scathing style, its sorry and flawed characters, its true-to-life, acute, sharp psychological portrayals, the beauty of Flaubert's fully fleshed out prose.Flaubert's story is also a prime opportunity to read biting irony on the pettiness of the country clerks and shopkeepers and it offers a terrific glipse at a silly, seamy, ludicrous flirt during a session of the Agricultural Fair. That speaks volumes about the odds Flaubert may have faced and the throes he may have lived in the flesh before his novel came to fruition.-----L'histoire malheureuse d'Emma Bovary, lectrice consommée de romans d'amour, que rien n'a préparé à vivre un mariage forcément décevant et les amourettes médiocres pour l'en distraire.Un roman exemplaire à plus d'un titre. Son style ravageur, ses personnages et leur histoire touchante et triste, la pénétration psychologique de l'auteur, la beauté de la langue charnue de Flaubert. Ce texte de Gustave Flaubert est aussi l'occasion de scènes mordantes sur la vie provinciale normande : opinions politiques des notables et des commerçants, une scène de séduction délicieusement stéréotypée et mièvre au cours d'une foire agricole (à l'insu et aux dépens d'Emma qui en est l'objet).Tout ça en dit long sur les déconvenues et le désenchantement que Flaubert a dû connaître en personne avant de pouvoir accoucher de ce roman éternel.
5015627038	“At the bottom of her heart, however, she was waiting for something to happen. Like shipwrecked sailors, she turned despairing eyes upon the solitude of her life, seeking afar off some white sail in the mists of the horizon."Emma Bovary is a woman who inspires the passions of others, especially the passion of men who want to possess her. In Gustave Flaubert's Madame Bovary, it feels like Flaubert has given us the internal conflicts of a real and very complicated person. The work is an engaging read that sometimes feels like a romance, but more often feels like the psychological study of the book's heroine. I'm not sure I liked Emma Bovary, but that's definitely not the point. She exudes a palpable sense of disappointment with life that makes her vulnerable to those who want to control her, either through love or debt. Above all, though, she remains more complicated than the love affairs she engages in, her role as wife or mother or the tragedy that befalls her.
2360573054	Recently (November 17, 2023, to be exact) I had the pleasure of attending the world premiere of Emma Bovary, an adaptation for the ballet and presented by The National Ballet of Canada, in Toronto. Such production was outstanding and the choreography was extraordinary.So, as soon as I arrived home I searched for my copy of this book, because I felt the need to re-read it (but this time in English).I read this work during my early teens, and in my memory I remembered this book being about adultery, but the adaptation for the ballet was a lot more than just that. In the ballet the portrait of mental illness was very strong and touching. You do feel sorry for the main character, but at the same time, you hate her. She is very unlikable, so I think that the majority of the negative reviews of the book are based on that alone, which I think is very unfair, but I have only to accept those opinions.Yes, I had to re-read this book, to see what I missed out on my first reading. The ballet gave me a different perspective and I loved the adaptation.This novel was originally serialized in the Revue de Paris in 1856, and then published in two volumes the following year. Upon its release, the French government accused Flaubert of obscenity, but, in my opinion, there is nothing vulgar, offensive or obscene about this book, but perhaps during those years no one would consider the desires of a woman as being normal. But I’m not sure if anything was lost in translation.But it is said that this is a work of profound humanity, and according to some, it opened a new age of realism in literature.Yes, I have to agree that the development of the storyline is not very engaging. This is not a page turner. My favourite part of the book was the last 20%, which was very well written and tragic.But I couldn’t stop thinking about the time it was written and I had to take that fact into consideration, hence my ratings.I did read this edition and at the same time I listened to the audiobook narrated by Leelee Sobieski (on Audible).I noticed some differences in the words/phrases such as below: Audio x ebookStifled laugh x stifled bombFive hundred lines x five hundred versesShe always accompanied him x She always reconducted himI didn’t write all of the difference between editions (there were too many), but this sample will give you an idea of what I’m trying to say.After a few chapters I switched editions and found one that was exactly like the audiobook (it happens to be an edition by Amazon Classics).I should have googled for the one considered as the best translated edition, before starting.Anyways, I did it after and this was the result: “The original, classic translation from 1886 is the one by Eleanor Marx-Aveling (the youngest daughter of Karl Marx) and the one that's trendy now is the 2010 translation by Lydia Davis.”Paperback (published in 2005 by Barnes & Noble Classics with new Introduction): 368 pagesebook (kindle - Amazon Classics): 372 pages (default)ebook (Kobo), The Floating Press (Release Date: January 1, 2008): 399 pages (default), 115k words Audible - Audiobook narrated by Leelee Sobieski: 12h 32min (normal speed)
3120437498	that's the type of book i hated reading but love having read <3
4667635619	Excelentă și la a treia lectură.
2686730386	95th book of 2021.3.5. So glad I finally read this even though I failed to find the apparently superior translation by Lydia Davis. That being said, Wall's translation is still stunning and is a testament to the stories about Flaubert labouring every single phrasing in his work. My main problem with it is that as a 19thC novel it is fairly predictable in its plot. In fact, most of the time you can guess how novels of this period wrap-up. The ending did carry some emotional weight though, helped by Flaubert's prose. I suppose contextually this novel becomes more powerful by Emma Bovary's actions/thoughts as a woman of the time and being written by a man no less. Nowadays adultery doesn't raise the eyebrows like it used to, of course, but it's easy to imagine what this was like at its publication. I almost gave this book 4-stars for the prose alone but honestly I was rather bored reading it at times and read it very slowly, only stomaching so many pages at once before having to put it down. I underlined a fair bit, good quotes such as, 'Love was gradually dimmed by absence, regrets were smothered by habit', and countless longer descriptions of setting, which Flaubert does quite a lot; they are beautiful but sometimes get in the way of the plot. But can you really complain about paragraphs like this?: In the summer heat, more of the bank was above water, exposing the garden walls to their base, with their little flights of steps going down to the river. It was flowing silently, swift and cold to the eye: tall clustering grasses arched over it, bending to the current, and, like cast-off green hair, uncoiled their fronds in the limpid depths. Now and then, on the tips of the reeds or the leaves of the water lilies, some slender-legged insect crawled or came to rest. Sunbeams pierced the tiny blue bubbles in the waves as they rippled and died away; the old lopped willows gazed in the water at their grey bark; out beyond, all around, the meadows looked empty. So paragraphs like that almost beg for a higher rating and they deserve it. But I couldn't help but feel the elegant prose was stifled a little by everything mentioned above. Emma is a selfish and sometimes irritating character but she had my respect at the same time (or rather Flaubert did) when she thought things like, 'She wanted to do battle with men, spit in their faces, crush them all'. And yet despite this I found the novel lacking in some sort of depth. It reminded me ever so slightly of Middlemarch, though Eliot's novel is as well written if not better and brimming with philosophical depth and emotion. The more I read around the 19thC the more I realise how utterly brilliant Middlemarch was and how it is perhaps deserving of the 5-stars I failed to give it.
2256318283	بیشتر از اینکه مجذوب خود داستان بشم مجذوب پردازش داستان شدم. فراز و نشیب هایی لذت بخش که حوصله ام رو سر نبرد و خسته ام نکرد. جمله هایی که منظم و با دقت کنار هم چیده شده بودن و شخصیت هایی که کنش ها و واکنش های به جا و مناسبی داشتن.
2283041674	| | blog | tumblr | ko-fi | |Emma Bovary has become the epitome of desperate housewife, the archetypal unfaithful wife, the ultimate daydreamer whose fantasies lead to a premature self-destruction. “She wished she could stop living, or sleep all the time.”Madame Bovary follows the ‘provincial ways’ of the petite bourgeoisie. Charles Bovary is a so-so doctor, married to an older woman, and is ordinary in every which way. Similarly to Prince Myshkin his naïveté and kind-heartedness are perceived by those around him as weaknesses or signs of stupidity. He falls in love with Emma, the daughter of one of his patients, and lucky for him his wife just ups and dies (as she is hanging the wash she exclaims “Oh, my God!” sighs, loses consciousness and dies: “She was dead! How astonishing it was!”). Charles makes the most of this tragedy and asks Emma’s father for her hand in marriage. After an incredibly ornate wedding the two settle into married life. Or Charles does. He is exuberant, he adores Emma, lavishing her with affection. Emma, on the other hand, finds her husband suffocating and grows increasingly resentful towards him. She craves the “passion” and “intoxication” promised to her in her favourite books (in this she reminds me of Catherine from Northanger Abbey who obsesses over Gothic books, so much so that she ends up viewing the world through Gothic-tinted glasses).In the following chapter (which happens to be my favourite one) the narrative describes Emma’s childhood and education at a convent. It is there that Emma becomes enthralled by the world of popular romances. She feels “an ardent veneration for illustrious or ill-fated women” such as Joan of Arc, Mary Stuart or the nun Héloïse. Emma is captivated by the regalia worn by the hero of a novel rather than by the hero himself. We find this same attitude towards many things in her life: “She loved the sea only for its storms, and greenery only when it grew up here and there among ruins”. Likewise, while at the convent she seems to more attracted to the trappings of religion rather than feeling a genuine devotion: she focuses on the appearance of the “white-faced” nuns, the rosaries, the copper crucifixes, “the perfumes of the altar, the coolness of the fonts, and the glow of the candles”. She does not pay attention to the Mass, gazing instead “in her book at the holy pictures with their azure edges”. Emma Rouault loves “the church for its flowers, music for the words of its songs, and literature for its power to stir the passions”.Emma Bovary strongly resembles her maiden self. She is disappointed by her marriage, for she considers Charles to be a man who “taught her nothing, knew nothing, wished for nothing”. She thinks him dull and unambitious, the very opposite of an ideal husband. Emma is equally let down by her experience of motherhood, which is quite unlike the one she envisioned. Finally, her love affairs—with Rodolphe and Léon—seem to offer merely a pretext for her to exchange keepsakes and letters with another person. Emma goes through the motions of being in love without feeling any real love; it is the opportunity of wearing a new riding habit that causes her to embark upon her first affair. It is unsurprising then that she soon grows weary of both her lovers: “[Emma] was rediscovering in adultery all the platitudes of marriage”.As Emma’s appetite for luxurious material goods increases, she grows more disillusioned with her life, and since the happiness those extravagant items give her is merely temporary, she is unable to fight ennui. Her mounting debt to Lheureux, the man who sells her the material goods she so desperately craves, and her failed love affairs contribute to bringing about Emma’s own demise.Even before marrying Charles, Emma had fallen prey to ennui: soon after leaving the convent “she considered herself to be thoroughly disillusioned, with nothing more to learn, nothing more to feel”. Whereas boredom is a ‘response to the immediate’, ennui ‘belongs to those with a sense of sublime potential, those who feel themselves superior to their environment’. And indeed, Emma feels a sense of superiority to what surrounds her: her dull husband, her mother-in-law, her servants, the uncouth villagers, the “tiresome countryside, the idiotic petits bourgeois, the mediocrity of life”. Emma is adamant that she has been cast in the wrong role, that of a petit-bourgeois woman, believing that she deserves to live as a heroine in a romance does, married to Prince Charming and surrounded by beauty.A pattern gradually emerges: time and again Emma is disappointed by her attempts to reconstruct the world portrayed in her romantic novels. At the same time, it is almost as if Emma is unconsciously not really interested in satisfying her desire or making her daydreams reality; what she seems to truly enjoy is the act of desiring itself. After all, it is only in her fantasies, and by apotheosizing her past experiences, that Emma can envision herself experiencing a form of pure sensation and heightened emotion. And perhaps it is the very act of fantasizing that enables her to feel something akin to jouissance, which in Lacanian theory is a form of ‘backhanded enjoyment’, an excessive pleasure that ‘[b]egins with a tickle and ends with blaze of petrol’. The pleasure that Emma feels by longing – by the very act of daydreaming – is similar to the ecstatic feeling experienced by her dream self. Yet, the enjoyment that she derives from yearning is accompanied by a feeling of pain since Emma is only able to long because she is missing something. Paradoxically, then, Emma can find fulfilment in the perpetuation of her non-fulfilment given that ‘every form of fulfilment necessarily brings an end to the desired state of longing, it is only the infinite deferral of satisfaction that keeps desire alive’.There is the tendency to believe that Emma’s mania, her depression and her subsequent suicide result from her clumsy attempts at upward mobility. Flaubert makes Emma’s desires and her unhappiness quite clear to us: she wishes to live like the heroines in her beloved romances, yearns for an impossible glittery lifestyle but, try as she might, never really succeeds in replicating the feelings or experiences she has read of. Certainly, there are many instances where readers will find Emma’s dissatisfactions to be risible. But, however small-minded and solipsistic Emma Flaubert articulates her sense of entrapment and addiction to longing (for sublimity, love, completion, meaning) in such a way as to challenge easy dismissals of her desires (as being petty or superficial). There are so many things that made me love this book. Flaubert's prose (or Lydia Davis’ impeccable), his attention to the minute details that constitute provincial life, his irony, his absurd characters....the list goes on. Flaubert excels at depicting the contradictory nature of people, the fleeting moments of irritation, boredom, hate, passion...there are many scenes which seem to ridicule his characters’ worries, but he never directly pokes fun at his characters (his readers will do that for him). And while a certain sardonic humor prevails there are also episodes that will certainly elicit our sympathies.Although this novel is often labelled as a romance or a tragedy, Madame Bovary reads like an anti-romance. We have characters such Emma and Léon, idealists, self-proclaimed romantics, who are trapped in a realist narrative. Yet, Flaubert is also making fun of realism. There are so many descriptions of what the characters are wearing, of the smells or objects, houses, streets, you name it. Then juxtaposing these lavish or picturesque descriptions we have scenes detailing Charles’ operating on the stable boy’s club foot, and these scenes make for some nausea-inducing reading material.Nevertheless this remains a beautifully crafted novel. Flaubert’s acuity, his striking prose, his vibrant characters, make for an unforgettable read. One should not approach this novel hoping for something in the realms of Anna Karenina. Although one could describe Emma as the ‘heroine’ of this novel, she possesses mostly qualities that will make readers hate her. There were many instances in which I disliked her (just read of the way she treats her servants or her daughter or even Charles). But Flaubert is a deft writer, and Emma cannot be simply be labelled as 'unlikable'. In many ways she reminds of the alienated women who star in recent fiction such as the narrator in My Year of Rest and Relaxation. Emma is like them bored, self-destructive, prone to bouts of depression, and finds pleasure only in daydreams. The first time I picked up this novel I struggled to make it past the first chapter. I then ended up listening to the audiobook (narrated by Juliet Stevenson who gives an impeccable performance) and, just like that, I was transfixed. This second time around I read it myself (I own a very stylish penguin classics edition) and I was once again enthralled by Flaubert narrative. I was particularly intrigued by the seamless way in which he shifts perspectives. This time I was also able to truly savour Flaubert's prose as I already knew how the storyline would unfold. Next time I may try reading the Italian translation and maybe who knows, one day I will be able to read the original French (okay, that's quite unlikely but you never know...). Anyway, I could probably go on and on about this novel. I would not recommend it to those who have a low tolerance for irony and kind of detestable characters.
1183964397	“Before her marriage she had believed herself to be in love; but since the happiness which should have resulted from this love had not come to her, she felt that she must have been mistaken. And she tried to find out exactly what was meant in life by the words ‘bliss,’ ‘passion’ and ‘rapture,’ which had seemed so beautiful to her in books”Emma Bovary constantly lived in a web of perpetual illusion, a luminous world which she had engendered through her penchant for reading vivid romantic books, and through her unremitting rumination upon her vague idea of ultimate bliss. Times she spent in the convent had added a holy, heavenly garb to her notion of being happy; the words like "betrothed", "spouse", “heavenly lover” and “eternal lover” uttered by the priests had made a deep impression on her, as if it was engraved on her heart by molten coal. The inordinate longing for this- vague- exalted bliss made her present reality riddled with ennui. Boredom was her singular trait; she always had a pensive air about her- a deep, hapless longing for ‘Something’. She spent each day in such wanton longing that the meeting with Charles was like a propitious coincidence, as if angels of bliss smilingly colluded into materializing this fortunate stroke of serendipity. She wouldn't know the least what to expect of this chance-meeting or what ultimate bliss feels like; she simply followed her infantile instincts and waited eagerly for the clinching of that ‘eternal bliss’, the desire for which inundated her ardent yet too stubborn heart with irrepressible longing. This excessive longing, at some point, is sure to be met with a cataclysmic disillusionment, like a streak of lightning is sure to be followed by a hollow peal of thunder- the crystal palace of her illusive world crumbles under the coarse, brutish force of reality that shatters the former with one powerful sweep. Slipping into a marriage with the conceited motive of attaining the ‘bliss’, with no inkling about the groom or his disposition, and relying solely on the heavenly collusion which she had had often read in her fiery romantic novels, Emma was about to receive the first blow, hefty still, on her egotistical self. A paragraph, which I highlighted as soon as I read it, shows her disposition in a generalized way:”She had to be able to extract some kind of personal benefit from things, and she rejected as useless anything which did not contribute to the immediate gratification of her heart, for her temperament was more sentimental than artistic and she sought emotion, not landscapes.”As soon as Emma got married, she scrabbled her nuptial life seeking to grope the ‘exalted bliss’ which she was sure of catching hold of. She reconnoitered her feelings and life post-marriage, like a hunter scouring the thickets of forest for his game. All she was able to comprehend was a tangible feeling of calmness, which rendered little to quell her ravenous thirst for the nebulous bliss. She, in her egotistical best, negated this serene calmness as it didn't look like the ‘happiness’ she wanted, which she so deliriously longed for. Her restless mind, palpitating in the disconsolate vibrations of her longings, couldn’t settle in the cool shade of calmness, for which multitudes of souls fervently pray for each day. She aimlessly wandered on the stranded, even lands of marriage for ‘something’, like a delirious woman seeking an ocean in the midst of a desert. The ‘something’ which she longed for didn’t obviously gave her a concrete picture as to what it is or how it may transpire a change in her life; but she knew that that ‘something’ should come in the garb of a man, a man who is her husband, the progenitor of her bliss. Charles, due to his inability to inspire in her that sort of exalted bliss, soon became an irritable thread in her eyes, making them water in anguish and despair. He, Charles, was an ordinary man with modest virtues and a golden heart. He loved Emma like an idol. He, being a common man, couldn’t comprehend the tumultuous, convoluted heart of his partner, which was smoldering in demoniac rage at his failing to make her ‘happy’. All this sincere indifference and selfless devotion irritated her like lice on her hair.“But shouldn’t a man know everything, excel in all sorts of activities, initiate you into the turbulence of passion, the refinements and mysteries of life?”“She was exasperated by Charles’s apparent unawareness of her ordeal. His conviction that he was making her happy seemed to her an idiotic insult, and his placid confidence about it struck her as ingratitude. For whom was she being virtuous? Was he not the obstacle to any kind of happiness, the cause of all her misery, the sharp-pointed tongue in the buckle of the strap that wound around her, binding her on all sides?”Emma, who was beginning to see her husband as a bolus of hindrance in her ambitions and dreams, began furtively devising schemes to avenge herself for her lost bliss. Charles was scorned upon; he was too deplorable for her to even look at him with calm eyes. Her egotistical proclivities, her selfish quest for exalted bliss, all accrued to her slipping into the adulterous ways. She betook herself to this nerve-tickling idea of adultery with celerity. A new horizon of bliss loomed over her vision as she ruminated upon this exhilarating prospect with temerity. But the idea of bliss still remained recondite in her restless heart, but she wasted no time for any sort of introspection. “The drabness of her daily life made her dream of luxury, her husband’s conjugal affection drove her to adulterous desires. She wished he would beat her so that she could feel more justified in hating him and taking vengeance on him.”She, in an amorous proclivity, began seeking adulterous love. In her search, two men caught her fancy : Leon and Rodolphe. The sensual pleasure was accentuated by her double pleasure of deceiving her husband. This vengeance soon paved way to an unusual bliss, and the trysts soon became a part of her being as she longed again and again to get drenched in those waters of passion and poetic bliss. She begins writing love poems for her lovers and becomes a lying machine in-order to get away with her mad desires. Conclusion: Everything has a breaking point, beyond which boredom and repentance takes the reign of the realm of your senses. Emma Bovary, finding at last that the amorous rope which she yanked so hard to her life was a slippery one, began descending into delirium and despair as she abruptly comprehended that her amorous expeditions has destroyed everything in its wake- destroyed her property, family and herself. At the death bed, in the serene and immaculate ambiance of dazzling candle lights and lulling prayers, the truth might have been dawned on her like one final revelation. But the truth of the truth is left by the author for our reasoning with conjectures that might resonate with our sense of judiciousness.“Why was life so unsatisfying? Why did everything she leaned on instantly crumble into dust? […] nothing was worth seeking – everything was a lie! Each smile hid a yawn of boredom, each joy a curse, each pleasure its own disgust; and the sweetest kisses only left on one’s lips a hopeless longing for a higher ecstasy” Oh Emma… Writing style:According to me, this is a sublimely written book. The prose laps onto our minds like the effervescent tides soothingly bathe our feet. His prose is so impeccable, so entrancing, so satiating that one gets on with a sweet soporific effect; there is a stuffy air of elegiac quality as well in his writing which again adds to the beauty.The details are not at all extraneous, and they add so much depth and beauty to the entirety of the novel. This is indubitably one of my favorite novels, and it thus entered into my top ten list. Highest possible recommendation. I cannot refrain from adding this wonderful passage:“The truth is that fullness of soul can sometimes overflow in utter vapidity of language, for none of us can ever express the exact measure of his needs or his thoughts or his sorrows; and human speech is like a cracked kettle on which we tap crude rhythms for bears to dance to, while we long to make music that will melt the stars.” A brief note on translation:Lowell Bair had done a masterful job in bringing a musical finish to the overall translation. I thoroughly enjoyed this version and I wouldn’t even try to look for other translations. I might as well read this translation again in distant future if a propitious time proffers itself to me.5 shining stars on 5!-gautam
216709429	Madame Bovary & The Science of AdulterySome universal features stand out when we talk of the human mating system. 1. First, women most commonly seek monogamous marriage—even in societies that allow polygamy. Rare exceptions notwithstanding, they want to choose carefully and then, as long as he remains worthy, monopolize a man for life, gain his assistance in rearing the children, and perhaps even die with him. 2. Second, women do not seek sexual variety per se. There are exceptions, of course, but fictional and real women regularly deny that nymphomania holds any attraction for them, and there is no reason to disbelieve them. The temptress interested in a one-night stand with a man whose name she does not know is a fantasy fed by male pornography. Lesbians, free of constraints imposed by male nature, do not suddenly indulge in sexual promiscuity; on the contrary, they are remarkably monogamous. None of this is surprising: Female animals gain little from sexual opportunism, for their reproductive ability is limited not by how many males they mate with but how long it takes to bear offspring. In this respect men and women are very different.3. But third, women are sometimes unfaithful. Not all adultery is caused by men. Though she may rarely or never be interested in casual sex with a male prostitute or a stranger, a woman, in life as in soap operas, is perfectly capable of accepting or provoking an offer of an affair with one man whom she knows, even if she is “happily” married at the time. This is a paradox. It can be resolved in one of three ways: 1. We can blame adultery on men, asserting that the persuasive powers of seducers will always win some hearts, even the most reluctant. Call this the “Dangerous Liaisons” explanation. 2. Or we can blame it on modern society and say that the frustrations and complexities of modern life, of unhappy marriages and so on, have upset the natural pattern and introduced an alien habit into human females. Call this the “Dallas” explanation. 3. Or we can suggest that there is some valid biological reason for seeking sex outside marriage without abandoning the marriage—some instinct in women not to deny themselves the option of a sexual “plan B” when plan A does not work out so well. Call this the “Emma Bovary” strategy.The “Emma Bovary” strategy.It takes two hands to clap, as the old saying goes among men when blamed for being adulterous by nature. And knowing the evolutionary logic, we have to ask: What’s in it for the women?For the males it is obvious enough: Adulterers father more young. But it is not at all clear why the female is so often unfaithful. Birkhead and Møller, in their experiments, rejected several suggestions: that she is adulterous because of a genetic side effect of the male adulterous urge, that she is ensuring some of the sperm she gets is fertile, that she is bribed by the philandering males (as seems to be the case in some human and ape societies). None of these fit the exact facts. Nor did it quite work to blame her infidelity on a desire for genetic variety. There seems to be little point in having more varied children than she would have anyway.Birkhead and Møller were left with the belief that females benefit from being promiscuous because it enables them to have their genetic cake and eat it—to follow the Emma Bovary strategy. A female needs a husband who will help look after her young, but she might be unlucky and might find all the best husbands taken. Her best tactic is therefore to mate with a mediocre husband or a husband with a good social position/job/inheritance and have an affair with a genetically superior neighbor. This theory is supported by the facts: Females always choose more dominant, older, or more “attractive” lovers than their husbands; they do not have affairs with bachelors (presumably rejects) but with other females’ husbands; and they sometimes incite competition between potential lovers and choose the winners.Baker and Bellis, in their experimental results, do not claim to have found more than a tantalizing hint that this is so, but they have tried to measure the extent of cuckoldry in human beings. In a block of flats in Liverpool, they found by genetic tests that fewer than four in every five people were the sons of their ostensible fathers. In case this had something to do with Liverpool, they did the same tests in southern England and got the same result. Like birds, women may be—quite unconsciously—having it both ways by conducting affairs with genetically more valuable men while not leaving their husbands.In short, the reason adultery is so common is that it enables a male to have more young and enables a female to have better young.[ One of the most curious results to come out of bird studies in recent years has been the discovery that “attractive” males make inattentive fathers. Nancy Burley, whose zebra finches consider one another more or less attractive according to the color of their leg bands, first noticed this, and Anders Moller has since found it to be true of swallows as well. When a female mates with an attractive male, he works less hard and she works harder at bringing up the young. It is as if he feels that he has done her a favor by providing superior genes and therefore expects her to repay him with harder work around the nest. This, of course, increases her incentive to find a mediocre but hardworking husband and cuckold him by having an affair with a superstud next door. ]In any case, the principle—marry a nice guy but have an affair with your boss or marry a rich but ugly man and take a handsome lover—is not unknown among female human beings. It is called having your cake and eating it, too. Flaubert’s Emma Bovary wanted to keep both her handsome lover and her wealthy husband. It might not always work out along the evolutionary plan…~ adapted wholesale from Matt Ridley’s discussion of adultery among birds in The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature
1513672940	_Madame Bovary_Ok. I liked this book. So, this is slow paced, full of descriptions and in general, not many things are happening even though the book covers a period of several years. It's "multilayered" on many aspects, giving us pieces out of eveyone's thoughts and showing us the emptiness of the provincial life in the ending decates of the 19th century in France. The humor, the kindness and the elegance which Flaubert uses in his writing in order to present the story and the characters is everything. The descriptions are alive. It's like you can watch them move in front of you. It is mainly the psychographic portrait of Emma, our main protagonist, but also, in a smaller extend, of all the people in her life. This is a masterpiece. From here on there are going to be some minor SPOILERS cz i just wanna talk about a few things in the book. First of all, i think i kind of like Emma. I know, she is emotionally unstable, always treating her life with ingratitude, she is vainglorious, greedy and conceited. She is impulsive and unpredictable. But after all this mess, i cannot dislike her, so i think i might actually like her. I beared everything that she did in this book but i swear there were times i wanted to just tell her "Hold still, my human, for a moment. Stop and look where you are, whom you are with. Stop and say to yourself, I am happy. Feel that. Be grateful for that. Ask for no more." But of course Madame Bovary is so not that kind of person. And at the end of the book, when i started getting tired of her mess, she did something. She denied something with strength and honor and it felt like to me, that not everything was lost, even though everything was lost. She is self-desastrous in this whole book but she walks in her complete destruction with such small steps that you can only undersand how far she has come in the mess of her life only in the last chapters, when Flaubert sums up all her actions, even the minor ones. This book needs your paitence and understanding while reading it. I appreciate this piece of literature Flaubert has offered and i am sure i will reread it at some point. 5/5
3326856231	No es un clásico fácil de leer, sobretodo al principio, pero una vez que te metes en la trama te engancha totalmente.Emma me ha sacado de quicio. Ella: tan soñadora, tan ilusa, tan manejable; lo tenía todo para ser feliz, pero está aburrida de la vida que lleva, aspira a más.En fin, la pobre muchacha toma toda una suerte de malas decisiones, conoce a unos crápulas sin sentimientos que la llevarán por el camino de la ruina, tanto personal como financiera.Todos los hombres que la rodean, excepto el marido, se llevan todo mi desprecio. Vale, a Justin también lo salvo. Más de un personaje se merecía un castigo y se han quedado tan pichis.Muy recomendable. Eso sí, con paciencia.
