34875740	Joanne Harris - image from BBC St. Oswalds Grammar School for Boys is an exclusive British institution, a bastion of tradition and privilege. Roy Straitley is an aging Classics teacher about to reach his 100th term at the school. The sameness and relative serenity of St Oswalds is about to be shattered. A new teacher is up to no good, determined to wreak havoc, perhaps even destroy the school and all those in it. Ultimately, this will become a battle between the honorable Straitley and the wretch bent on revenge and destruction. This is a very engaging read, told alternately from the perspectives of Straitley and his nemesis. It takes place in two times as well, the present, in which small things disappear, evidence appears to incriminate people who are accused of crimes they did not commit. Pawns are used and sacrificed in the deadly game. We are also shown the roots of this evil, fifteen years prior, in which the young person comes to despise the school and its inhabitants. A game of chess, both then and now. Fun, fast reading, thrilling and with an excellent final-chapter twist. Heartily recommended.
3382821646	Another wonderful written and characterised Joanna Harris novel. A new term, a new group of teachers at a public school - the status quo in the language department is rocked by new ways of working, installation of computers and small, but annoying occurrences and accidents. As these incidents begin to mount, and in time get more serious, there seems to be something awry afoot. Great read! 8 out of 12 Four Stars.2013 read
1552782974	This is definitely the best book I have read so far this year. Why? Let me count the ways. Where to begin? (The only real complaint I have is that the synopsis and teasers given tell a story nothing like what readers have. At least, it reveals only a sliver, and not even a very significant one- comparatively minor enough that it changes the overall perception.) 1. As always, Joanne Harris is an expert at characterization. This is my 4th book by her I read and even if I did not like the book too much overall, her characters have consistently been relatable to the point that I was able to see them in front of me, the two-dimensional dimensional characters becoming three-dimensional. In this book, it is John Snyde, a psychopathic man, and Roy Straightly, a dedicated and loyal Classics teacher for thirty plus years. Entering the minds of these vastly different men is nothing short of fascinating. 2. The book is set up in a chess game format. Book parts, rather than numerical, are labeled: Pawn, King, Knight, En Passant, Check, Bishop, Queen, and Mate. Readers should be told that the two points of view are differentiated by the color of the cheers piece. As for myself, without this information, I failed to notice this and was slightly confused throughout until the very last chapter, although it became pretty clear after several sentences. 3. A psychological thriller. The thrill of the chase. A mystery. A suspenseful battle. A masterfully written all night page turner.4. Themes I appreciate: the shame of the LGBT community, the difficulties inherent in teaching, friendships, parenting, abnormal psychology, loyalty, and institutions and traditions ineradicable and with a character of its own. 5. Sentimental and touching at the same time as appalling and frustrating. The ending is similar to that in Robin William's "Dead Poet's Society" (May he Rest In Peace) and quite heart warming. Well, unlike many mysteries and psychological thriller I have read, the eventual reveal was actually unexpected and not, like most, anticlimactic. **** Spoilers **** John Snyde is a man (and woman, as the reader find out as the story continues. He dresses up, first as a teenager posing as his "mother" Julia Snyde, then more than a decade later as a professor by the name of Diane Dare) that is driven to madness, by both his feelings of inferiority, his need for revenge, and the death of the only guy he ever really loved. As a child, because of his place on the lower end of the socioeconomic tier of life, he is excluded from the exclusive, sometimes pretentious St. Oswald's Grammar School for Boys. Because of his obsession with what he feels ruined his life, his new obsession is seeking revenge. His definition of this revenge is master planned, with a series of events and planned schemes, from spreading rumors that cause the staff to hate each other, claims of sexual abuse that tears then apart, encouragement to specifically targeted boys to rebel, missing items resulting in planted evidence, etcetera. His most intelligent rival can be found in Roy Straightly, whom is the one to eventually figure out his true identity and in clued in enough to unveil the truth, his true motive: he was the one (with an intense jealously of his girlfriend), many years ago, to push his (unrequited) love from the roof to his death. A satisfying conclusion, although not "ideal". And this is something I also really appreciate. Almost always, happy endings are, well, exactly that. Frustratingly so. I prefer realism over fairytale endings. Here, the bad guy is not caught, having recalled to another country. Sad, but a likely occurrence. To some comfort, in his own way, Snyde's pain has caused him to pay for many years. Although many characters are murdered, St. Oswald's endures, as do most of the more likeable characters. Joanne Harris, I liked you before, but now I love you!
4685494611	The writing in Gentleman and Players is excellent. Harris is able to evoke a real sense of place and conveys a perfect understanding of when to show and not tell, and how to fully immerse her readers in this rarified setting. Her exploration of identity is remarkably nuanced. Age, gender, class, work ethic, personal value system... all are at play in this novel. The prose on a technical level is without fault; the tone shifts effortlessly from playful to foreboding and then back again. The mystery itself is very absorbing - despite the richness of the writing, the novel is a page-turner. The author's greatest triumph is the characterization of the book's protagonist, Roy Straitley: a curmudgeonly dragon with staunch liberal values and a core of decency. Such an enjoyable person to spend time with, one full of endearing virtues and relatable flaws. I want to read more of this series because I'd like to experience more of what this author can do, but especially because I want to spend more time with Classics Master Straitley.All that said, this excellent book is 3.5 stars rounded down because, as enjoyable as the villain of the piece may be, I thought Harris' love for her canny killer got in her way of actually recognizing that this person is a horrific scumbag utterly devoid of redeeming features. Talent at deception and murder are not redeeming features! A tough childhood is context, not a redeeming feature! It's one thing to understand that a villain has many sides, and that many villains do not see their actions as villainous, and to recognize that people love reading (and writing) about manipulative monsters who are smarter than the fools around them. But it's another thing altogether to become so fully enamored with your vicious villain that you begin to view them as some sort of courageous hero worthy of an unironically happy ending. By the end of the book, it felt like the scumbag villain had not only fooled and outsmarted everyone in the cast, but had also successfully charmed and hoodwinked the author herself.
4397185280	"Murder is really no big deal. It's just a boundary, meaningless and arbitrary as all others - a line drawn in the dirt.What would happen if I crossed that line?Another line, daring me to cross it. Like murder!"Imagine these clauses in the first chapter, at St Oswald's Grammar School for Boys with a very cool teacher, Roy Straitley who hardy resists retirement, double up your imagination because you can never guess what's going on, and this is Gentlemen and Players!
246372222	** spoiler alert ** How do you feel when you know you are nothing but the porter’s son and will never ever be accepted by any of the boys at St. Oswald’s? Oh the agony of being overlooked, ignored, despised when you know that you are as good maybe even better than those snoots. That’s when you transform yourself from Julian Snyde into Julian Pinchbeck, as Julian Pinchbeck you have the run of St. Oswald's, as the porter’s son you have the bunch of keys that allows you to inspect every nook and cranny of St. Oswald, you know its secrets, its joys and aspirations. As Julian Pinchbeck you can eavesdrop into classes, although never an integral part of St. Oswald, you absorb knowledge like a sponge, you even have a mentor who you respect but also dislike. Although you feel a part of St. Oswald you know that you will never belong and that turns into a violent hatred for St. Oswald. And then along comes Leon the rebel…….You love him with a passion, you will do anything, just about anything to be his friend even when he treats you, your father the porter, and all other people in your social class as something revolting. And then Leon finds out your true identity…….you cannot imagine your life after that, you just cannot imagine…….and then you push him off the roof. You start a new life far away in France but you are never as vulnerable as you were as the porter’s child. You are now educated and know how to look after yourself pretty well, but all along you nurture that awful hatred for St. Oswald’s, you plot and plan your revenge for a decade and then you return to St. Oswald to wreak your terrible revenge from the very inside of St. Oswald, from its very soul you plan to finish St. Oswald. But what new avatar are you planning on?........... If you look at Julian Snyde/ Julian Pinchbeck's life, it could be ours too. How many times have we suffered slights, people ignoring you, people treating you like a bucket of garbage just because you do not belong to a particular social class, because we are not rich enough, the list is endless....And the harder you try the more you fail.Isn't it better then to be your own poor self? Not to compete? Not to try to be someone or something you just cannot be? So much more comfortable, so much more at ease? Doing what you love and trying not to strive to be someone else. For in such cases the race is endless and the goal never in sight.
2860174696	4.5 STARS “Most adults assume that the feelings of adolescence don't count, somehow, and that those searing passions of rage and hate and embarrassment and horror and hopeless, abject love are something your grow out of, something hormonal, a practice run for the Real Thing. It wasn't. At 13 *everything* counts; there are sharp edges on everything, and all of them cut.” An intriguing storyline and a twisted plot put this one in a whole new category for me. Of course we all know what a fabulous writer Joanne Harris is, that was never in question. But for the first three quarters of this book, I had to wonder... what is the purpose to all of this. I was even growing a little bored with it. Ha! Little did I know that I was about to be tossed off a cliff. What an ending! It made me see the entire book in a whole new light. Fabulous work. Loved it. And I can't fail to mention the narrator of the audiobook, Steven Pacey, who did a wonderful job. I will look forward to reading many more books by Joanne Harris.
2571128377	"Джентълмени и играчи“ е много комплексна книга. Едновременно носи дълбок смисъл, тегава атмосфера и чувство за хумор. Джоан Харис се е справила страхотно да предаде толкова силни послания, поднесени разчупено и с доза ирония.Сюжетът на „Джентълмени и играчи“ се развива в старата английска момчешка гимназия - „Сейнт Осуалдс“- , славеща се със своите традиции, а историята е поднесена от две различни перспективи- на преподавател от училището и на още един персонаж, който копнее да е част от този недостижим за него свят. Книгата е построена като игра на шах, в която последователно се редуват ходовете на отделните герои и ни разкриват историята на гимназия "Сейнт Осуалдс" от различен ъгъл.Партията, които се разиграва, обаче, не е обикновена, а залогът е на живот и смърт. Всичките коварни планове, които се осъществяват на страниците на "Джентълмени и играчи" е всъщност отчаяна нужда един невидим човек да бъде забелязан, най- накрая. В желанието си да бъде НЯКОЙ, той стига твърде далеч, но и това не може да компенсира пустотата и неудовлетворението в самия него, защото значимостта е усещане, което идва най- вече отвътре, а не отвън. Много ми хареса начинът, по който е изграден сюжета, както и самата история. Имаше момент, в който изпитах известно разочарование, когато Рой Стрейтли уж разконспирира цялата загадка. Беше ми странно, някак си ми се стори много неубедително, не заради друго, а защото от фактите, които бяха налице, беше сравнително трудно, даже абсурдно, някой да си извади толкова кристално чисти изводи и да направи толкова ясна взаимовръзка. И тъкмо се опитвах да потисна недоволството си от усещането за претупаност накрая, когато изведнъж Джоан Харис поднесе "ново двайсет"- разкритие, което честно казано ме изненада, нямах никакви подозрения или догадки. Ето това вече ме размаза от кеф, честно. В допълнение, героите бяха прекрасно изваяни- имаха дълбочина, характер, живец, усещане за завършеност. Много съм доволна от книгата. Това ми е първа среща с творчеството на Джоан Харис, от която останах очарована, и определено няма да ми е последна. Продължавам с " Различен клас", който е свързан с " Джентълмени и играчи" и надгражда историята. ======"Всяко нещо при достатъчно често повтаряне се превръща в навик. "
78657728	What a great book; especially the end where I did NOT see any of those twists coming. It's the sort of book that makes you want to turn to the beginning again to see where you might have picked up clues or see what you missed.I am a HUGE Joanne Harris fan, my favourites of hers being the "foodie" books and I must admit to being a tad sceptical when I picked this up thinking that maybe she wouldn't do thriller novels quite as well. I was wrong - this lady is no one-trick-pony. From the first page you know that there are a murder or two which sets the reader up for the unfolding story ahead. The story is set in a public boys school that is centuries old and has a mighty reputation to uphold and is narrated by two people in turn to keep us guessing. The old school teacher, Mr Straitley, adds some real comic moments too which add warmth to the book. However, whatever you think you know about this book, think again. By three quarters of the way through I guarantee that you will flick back wondering when you could possibly have missed the signs (not once but twice). Mwaaaaahahahahahaha!I highly recommend this book; I had great fun reading it.
36552866	Alright, I'll say right up front that I would have given this book five stars, except that it has more profanity and school-boy crudities than I'm comfortable with in a book. But, (and this might be a bad thing), I'm willing to put up with a little more of that in a really great book. This book is definitely more PG13 than PG.That being said, it's a great story. It's set in a boys' prep school in England and the story centers around Roy Straitley, a latin professor who has taught there for 33 years. Chapters are alternately told in his voice, and the voice of an unnamed new professor who plans to "take down" the school. We know from the outset that this new professor is planning murder and mayhem, but we don't know who he is or what he's planning to do. I love Straitley's wry sense of humor and his take on academic life. And the intended murder/mystery aspect is quite gripping. I finished the book sitting on the stairs by the kitchen while my kids ate breakfast one morning.PS - if you don't like profanity, don't look up the meaning to the latin phrases used by the students :) Just so you are forewarned...
1840829664	An incredibly clever book!We take the premise of an all boys grammar school, add a person with a serious grudge and things start to get interesting!It unfolds slowly, we know very little about the main character or what caused their hatred of the infamous 'St Oswalds School' - we follow them as they infiltrate the school and plan its ultimate downfall.I can't give away too much all I will say is the twist at the end has to be one of the greatest twists in contemporary literature. It royally screws your brain and completely rewrites everything you have just read!EVERYONE READ THIS BOOK!
4434761811	This is the first instalment in the Malbry series.St Oswald's is an elite grammar school luring the wealthy into its doors and, for those less well blessed financially, to only envy the privileged lifestyle of those who attend it. Our protagonist has spent their entire life yearning to belong and this academic institution is the only place that has ever felt like home, despite never rightfully earning a place there. This title promised a plethora of things I love about dark academia - pretentious characters, gluttony in many forms, secrets and mysteries, and a fair amount of bloodshed. It delivered it all and yet I felt strangely unsatisfied throughout.The reader felt privy to the secrets whereas other characters were not, but this was proven false by a late reveal that I did not see coming. It did shock me but, again, I did not feel wholly satisfied by it and I can't accurately explain why. Perhaps it was due to the slow prior plotting or the sense of foreboding that dogged all scenes and had me anticipating an explosive final showdown between all the characters. Perhaps it was due to the enormity of emotions experienced by said characters but how the roots of these was never properly uncovered, leading the reader to wonder just where the dual love and hatred truly stemmed from.Either way, this was an enjoyable read but when I peered too closely at it I found questions raised and never properly answered and I turned the final pages slightly unsatisfied.
1770057817	From what started out as a neat premise quickly devolved into a tedious, meandering puddle of words. I will say this much, I was hooked from the beginning; The plot for revenge by an outcast antihero. Going back and forth in narration between the PAWN, our schemer (with trips back into the past, and present) and the KING, the "Classics" Master, old centurion Mr. Roy Straitley, we find ourselves as readers woven into the murky history of St. Oswald's school for boys, and the lengths some will go to to destroy or preserve it.The darker the subject matter got, the more I found myself enjoying it, but there were too few instances of truly rich and masterful revenge. Most of the time, the book was muddled down by its boring middle portion. The plot to slowly dismantle St. Oswald's by our devious perpetrator is a somewhat remarkable one, but lacks a certain finesse. And the motivations behind it are (to quote an important character) far too "banal." The incentive does not hold enough weight (in my eyes) for the ultimate modus operandi.Also, the twist that occurs during the climax happened to be one of the two routes I theorized it would go. The author does her best to throw you off, and had me thinking a third of the way through the novel that "there's no way that it could be..." But it turns out that it could, and it was. So, there was a sense of lacking any sort of powerful, shocking punch for me by the time the twist was revealed. By then, however, the book was starting to wind down. The ending dragged on and on, and just sort of fizzled out.Could a sequel be in the works? It's certainly a possibility given the circumstances of the ending. I doubt I'd give this story another go, though. All in all, it was a good book. I didn't loathe it, so that's a plus, but I didn't love it, either, and that disappoints me.
117838893	Wow..what can I say about this book but I was blown away..Its an effort and exercise in vocabulary and patience but well worth it..The surprise twist that comes around page 324 is enough to make this book unforgettable and rare..This is the story of a prestigious all boys day school St. Oswalds and all the characters and secrets it holds are revealed to us by two narrators you love and hate... on one hand you have the loveable old Mr Straitley: a tweed jacket wearing relic of the old academic era when Latin was taught and respected instead of diminished by computer classes..Mr Straitley is cranky, pretentious, stubborn and silly but all in all my favorite teacher in a story as he is so richly drawn. The other narrator tells an alternate tale of St. Oswalds as they constantly feel excluded from the prestige and decorum of the school and so starts the obsessive and intriguing game of revenge and destruction starting with the faculty and unfortunately my Mr Straitley..I was caught up with this book for a week and actually found myself slowing down, rereading and relishing the language and prose of this talented author. She seamlessly intertwines Latin and GRE vocabulary words into a riveting tale with as I stated an amazing twist that made me want to reread the whole story again. I recommend this book to academic staff, aspiring writers, lovers of Latin and a good thrilling read..
4906256170	This is a book I had many years ago as a paperback and I never got around to reading it. When I saw that Harris’ recent book, A Narrow Door, was her fourth novel in the Malbry Cycle of psychological thrillers, I thought this was the time to start this series. I’m glad I did . Gentlemen and Players is a book of obsession, murder and revenge, set in St Oswalds school for boys. Well written with a bit humour thrown in........very enjoyable 😊. 4.5 ⭐️
945712	May 1st, 2007 (Two weeks before Ava was born)Not recommended! I went to Kepler's a week ago and almost came home with four new books. But I instituted an emergency policy on the spot -- only one book purchase allowed -- and I picked this one. It sounded so promising... I love page turners and this was touted as "wickedly funny", literary, and all that good stuff. But my high hopes were dashed! And I gave up after about 120 pages.In short, two narrators -- one who is supposed to be acerbically witty and the other who is ominously sinister. But I found neither to be particularly well done. I'm ruined by Arthur Phillips' "The Egyptologist" and Nabokov's "Pale Fire". The unreliable narrators in those novels are finely wrought, hilarious, and clever to boot. This book just felt common.Moving on...--After a comment on my review by a "stranger" on Goodreads, I thought I'd give this book another try. --October 6th, 2010 (Two weeks after David was born)Okay, I'm circling back to review this book more fully, after picking it up again after three years and actually finishing it. First of all, my review from three years ago was totally off-base and mildly embarrassing in retrospect. I don't know what business I had comparing one of the narrators of this novel to the "unreliable narrators" of "Pale Fire" and "The Egyptologist." My guess is that I was actually misusing the phrase "unreliable narrator," because "Gentlemen and Players" has no unreliable narrator. So, shame on you, Lauren of three years ago!I enjoyed this book after picking it up again. The rough plot is that someone is wreaking havoc at a crusty old-boy prep school in England. That somebody is one of a handful of new teachers, someone who has a history with the school -- harkening back to childhood when they were an outsider, the progeny of the school "porter." It's a sort of whodunit where the reader spends the novel guessing at this individual's identity. I actually knew from the beginning who the "bad guy" was, probably because three years ago when I first attempted to read the book and decided not to finish, I must have skimmed ahead (double shame on me!). But I enjoyed the book nonetheless. It isn't exactly deep, and for more insightful treatments of class at prep schools, I prefer "Prep" by Curtis Sittenfeld and "Old School" by Tobias Wolff. But this was a thriller and a decently-written one. I wouldn't classify it as "literary," because although the writing was steady, the themes weren't particularly insightful or deep.
2905026979	Вероятно не уцелих подходящия момент за тази книга, защото въпреки че ми беше интересна, сякаш не ми беше достатъчно интересна. През цялото време ми се струваше, че не се случва почти нищо, а реално се разказваше много и за миналото, и за настоящето. Имаше страшно много герои, а не опознах достатъчно никого от тях (почти никого).Големите плюсове за мен са, че историята ми даде финален обрат (или обрати), които наистина не очаквах. Освен това получих и изключително жесток и неприятен главен герой, който си съперничи с Хийтклиф и Джофри за моята литературна омраза.****Помня, че и аз тичах така — не толкова отдавна, когато уикендите се простираха пред мен като безкрайни игрища. Сега минават за един миг: седмици, месеци, години — всички потъват като в бездънна магическа шапка. И въпреки това се чудя. Защо момчетата все тичат? И кога аз спрях да тичам?Обичам есента, драматизма ѝ: златният лъв реве през задната врата на годината и тръска гривата си от листа. Опасно време — на ожесточен гняв и измамно спокойствие, на конфети в джобовете и кестени в юмруците.Навън беше свеж слънчев ден, момчетата тичаха из двора, гонеха есента.
2456514767	Един джентълмен с любов към мъртвите езици, но със съвсем живо чувство за хумор и приятен стоицизъм. И клас млади играчи, от които някои ще станат джентълмени, други вероятно не, но разликата между двете категории ще е видима само за набитото британско око. Подправени с малко стари престъпления, размътили кроткото (а дали?) британско ежедневие на едно реномирано училище. А старият джентълмен ще трябва да разбере дали окончателно е погребал играча в себе си, или пък ще се впусне в последната си партия шах.Бавна, лазеща по нервите, с чувство за хумор - типична Харис.
5297146850	Also... dieses Ende hat es nochmal hochgerissen. Wie krass muss man sein, um die LeserIn 350 Seiten lang in die Irre zu führen? Und dann, mit einem Mal, die Fragen zu beantworten, die man sich vor 100, vor 200 Seiten gestellt hat? Bei solchen Büchern bin ich sehr motiviert, sie noch einmal mit Vorwissen zu lesen und die vielen Kniffe und Anzeichen zu suchen.
662451038	Where do I start with this review?I've read a number of Joanne Harris' books. Almost all of them.This one blew all of those books out of the water.In my experience with her books, I've come to learn that there is a place in the middle where the plot lags, or the characters irritate me, or something just slows down enough for me to put the book down and pick something else up before going back to it.That point didn't happen in this book. It was fast paced and neat and every character was developed to a point where I felt satisfied and wanted to hear more of them.And then there were the twists! Impossible to say any more about them without spoiling, really, but I'll tell you that there were 20 pages in there that just one thing after the other had me gasping and shaking the book in front of me at the same time as being unable to pull my eyes from it. Man, what a ride. If there was a higher star rating to give, I would give it. There was absolutely nothing wrong with this book, it was seamless.~Similar to: Never Let Me Go
2197918455	I was all over the place with this book. Thinking one thing, then another, then another... Listening to the audio format wasn't exactly the best thing either, because I initially thought that the other parts were Straitley as a child simply because it was the same narrator throughout. But I figured it out eventually. But then we were intentionally misled and taken on a massive roller coaster ride. Whew, I'm exhausted! A very interesting and unique mystery that's hidden away from the mainstream. Looking for an overlooked little gem of a thriller? This is it, folks!
3965703776	In realtà sono 3,5 stelline.Questo libro della Harris è ambientato nella scuola St. Oswald, e tutto gira intorno a quella sia per un protagonista che per gli altri.La narrazione si svolge su due piani temporali diversi, presente e passato, ma sono anche due le voci narranti nel presente, due insegnanti, uno storico, mr Straitley, e l’altro nuovo che si capisce nascondere qualcosa di misterioso.Così capiamo mano a mano il motivo per cui nel presente cominciano a succedere certe cose nelle aule della scuola e cominciano a sorgere tanti problemi.Il problema del libro però è che, per arrivare a capirlo, ci sono davvero troppe pagine, troppo tergiversare fino a tirare veramente le somme.Certo aiuta a calarsi nelle atmosfere di quell’ambiente esclusivo, ma se fosse stato un po’ più ridotto non solo non avrebbe guastato ma avrebbe anche permesso di fare meno confusione tra i tempi e i tanti personaggi.A tal proposito devo dire di averci messo un bel po’ a ricordarmi tutti i nomi tra gli alunni e gli insegnanti, e non di tutti ci sono davvero riuscita.La cosa più particolare è che si tratta di una indagine atipica in quanto non c’è, per la maggior parte della storia, una persona che indaghi nè delle indagini vere e proprie perchè quelle esistenti sono quelle risalenti al passato e quelle nel presente iniziano molto tardi, quando, per un’intuizione del prof, si capisce che c’è qualcuno dietro agli ultimi avvenimenti.Oltre al caso centrale, l’attenzione è posta sulla distanza tra la gente comune e quella benestante che attua dei comportamenti tipici e, a tratti discriminatori nei confronti degli altri, ma anche sulle difficoltà psichiche e i tormenti di un adolescente in seguito all’educazione non adeguata da parte di due genitori divorziati che non sanno bene cosa vogliano.Il finale è un susseguirsi di colpi di scena, anche se ero riuscita a capire sia quale fosse la rivelazione, che quale fosse la nuova identità. Devo però ammettere che sono stati ben congegnati e mi ha stupita tantissimo come sia stata risolta la battaglia finale che è stato secondo me una scelta azzeccatissima e molto molto intelligente per risolvere il confronto in maniera non scontata.Tutto sommato è molto scorrevole però e quindi si lascia leggere con molta facilità e lascia una sensazione piacevole.“Straitley crede agli spettri-ci mancherebbe altro-e stasera gli spettri sono fuori in forze, come ricordi liberati per assillare i vivi.Lasciamoli fare. I morti non hanno molto con cui divertirsi.”
108219306	Fifth book for the readathon.I normally love everything that Joanne Harris writes, but I found this one a bit too predictable, and the characters a bit too much like others. 'Julian' had shades of blueeyedboy, mostly. The whole pattern of the book, too, the steady undermining forces and the final triumph, that's familiar from her other books as well. I don't think I was surprised once.She does evoke the school environment very well, at least to the mind of someone who attended a private school. And there are some very good lines, for example, this: "At thirteen, everything counts; there are sharp edges on everything, and all of them cut."A fun read, but not a great one, and definitely not something I'll read again.
79963031	Excellent. Harris's best. Changing genres, yet keeping her mysterious twists and turns, G & P will hold your interest. The characters are extraordinary,the plot paced just so, the story is superb. It is a clever tour de force. Nothing is as it seems.One of my top 5 books for 2006
2550780781	Loved this witty and wonderful story. Straitley is absolutely wonderful.
134697498	I don't know exactly why I bought this book. It looked nice to have a book on my shelves that was normal, with simple people, no magicians, no genius children and so. Well, I have to admit that most of the books I thought they are simple, they are not. And this is an example.The book is telling the story of a young student. It's experiece. The way the school is working. And it's relationships with the people among it. It's family, its friends, its teachers.The book is also telling the story of a Latin teacher, who's been working for the school for several years. He tells us stories of his past and events that are happening to his life in the present.Meanwhile, there is somebody in the school, a teacher, an assistant, a student, no-one knows, who makes jokes, that put in danger many lives and many work spaces.As I said, this book is not normal. There are many travels back and forward to the past and the present as both of the main characters-the student and the teacher-are talking. When you read it, you have to be careful not to miss a spot. Mostly, when you follow the evidence correctly you understand the end before the book reveilles it. But this book was more complex than the others I've read on the past. You figure out the truth when the writer tells you so.This was the second book of Joanne Harris that I've read(the first was for young people). I wasn't sure at the beggining because Joanne Harris is also the writer of Chocolat (the book is been a movie with Johnny Depp). But it totally surpriced me. The book is not one of those that keep you in agony, because so many things are happening in, that after a point you understand that you have to sit back, relax and let the story reveille in front of you.And the end comes. And you're adsolutely sure who's who. You've guessed, you've followed the evidence, it doesn't matter. Cause the end is going to surprise you, no matter what.That's why I'm suggesting it to you. Believe me when I say that after reading it I was speechless for several days and I was refusing to read something else, since I wanted to calm after it.
1496006157	Я читала много положительных отзывов о книге Джоан Харрис "Джентельмены и игроки", и, наверно, именно мои завышенные ожидания оказали такой плохой эффект. Я рассчитывала на очень многое, может, на "Тайную историю" Донны Тартт в английском переложении, может, на классический детектив в школе, а в итоге получила грязную, скучную и очень неприятную историю о всепоглощающей зависти, которая способна разрушить жизнь многих людей.Проблема этой книги в ее главном герое. Ребенок из неблагополучной семьи, с детства наблюдающий через ограду за "Сент-Освальдом", привилегированной школой для мальчиков, во что бы то ни стало хочет принадлежать этому миру - галстуков в школьной форме, изучению латыни, возможностью ходить по старым коридорам и башням. Но отец ребенка работает привратником в школе, мать и вовсе сбежала, и ему не остается ничего другого, как подсматривать, подслушивать, имитировать свою принадлежность к высшей, как ему кажется, касте, избранных, тех, кто может себе позволить обучение в "Сент-Освальде". И спустя многие годы он возвращается в школу, но уже с намерением мстить ей. Он хочет разрушить ее до основания, уничтожить ее в моральном смысле, нанести такой удар, после которого школа не оправиться.Всю книгу меня преследовало чувство, что главный герой отчаянно мучается от зависти: за свое поломанное детство, за нерентабельных родителей, может, за какие-то травмы, которые остались за кадром повествования. Он считает себя самым главным, самым умным, его месть рушит судьбы тех людей, которые к нему не имеют ни малейшего отношения, а только случайно оказываются у него на пути. На этом фоне и самый главный твист романа, когда читатель узнает его личность, и сюжетные повороты помельче не кажутся настолько интересными, чтобы смыть оставшееся после прочтения чувство, как будто к тебе пристали липкие слова злобы и зависти. Ни атмосфера романа, ни запутанный сюжет, ни личность другого рассказчика не могут перебить отвратного впечатления.
32912856	"Gentlemen and Players" may not be the best known of Joanne Harris's works, "Chocolat" undoubtedly holds that title, but this novel is a riveting story worthy of praise for its intelligence and ingenuity. Centered around the public (private for those of us in the US) St. Oswald's grammar school for boys where things begin to go terribly wrong - and we are not talking paper airplanes and spit balls disorder, more like school for scandal. As the school, and surrounding town, attempt to come to grips with the institution's unraveling, Harris weaves a set of plot twists that will have you flipping through the novel's pages trying to understand what you missed. This is a story of strategy and cunning shrouded in mystery and secrecy, which helps make up for several rather repetitive descriptions.Although satisfying, this novel is also disconcerting not only because of its subject matter, but also because Harris challenges readers to accept that not everything in life works out neatly according to the rules (no matter how badly we desire it). This novel will make you think and feel, which is truly something wonderful. Harris herself dedicated over a decade to teaching in the British school system and her devotion comes through clearly in every chapter, not to mention a lovely essay reflecting on her teaching career in the P.S. edition.One word of caution to readers before diving unreserved into this novel piece of literature - this is a story involving children and not everything that happens is good. If you are bothered by this type of thing, it might not be the choice for you. Do not let this caution put you off entirely, but it was not something I was prepared for when I began reading.
723655352	Újraolvasás volt 5 év után, és bár az alapot tudtam, mégis sok dolog, apró részlet ért ismét meglepetésként. Az embernek kiesnek a részletek, és az újrafelfedezés öröme olyan tud lenni, mintha most először találkoznánk a történettel. :) Imádom Roy Straitley karakterét, de az összes fő- és mellékszereplő is kidolgozott és remek volt. A hangulatteremtés olyan erős, hogy már az első három mondat totálisan berántott. A sakkfigurás megjelölések, a különféle szimbólumok ötletesek, a könyv maga pedig okos, csavaros, élvezetes. Krimi is, thriller is, mystery is, miközben szépirodalmi igényességű. :) Folytatom is a Different Class-szal. ;) Korábbi, 2014-es blogbejegyzésem a könyvről: http://pupillaolvas.blogspot.com/2014...
2708470252	Set in an independent boys' grammar school, St. oswalds, the story is split between two narrators, the elderly classics master, Roy Straitley, and one of the new teachers (we don't know which one) who has a grudge against St Oswalds and is there to destroy the school. This is a gripping story with some very interesting characters, Roy Straitley in particular stands out as someone you would love to know in reaL life. I guessed the identity of the mystery teacher about halfway through, but that in no way spoils the story, which is absorbing until the end.
3429292220	I wasn't sure about this book to begin with, it seemed a bit slow, but as it went on I found it hard to put down. There is a twist near the end that hit me right between the eyes and I wanted to go back to the beginning and read it again to see if I had missed any clues.
5422424713	St Oswald’s Grammar School for Boys. A place of privilege and a place where rules and routines matter. Though we are introduced to the school much earlier, our time here comes during a reign of carefully planned chaos. Someone has a grudge and they will not be happy until the school tears itself apart. While events unfold in a carefully orchestrated set of manoeuvres, our game is to try to establish exactly who is behind it and why.Harris’s previous role as a teacher means she captures with eloquence the descriptions of boys on the cusp of the transition to adulthood, their subversive streak and the comedic element to the behaviour of the adults who are charged with running the place.The story itself begins very much earlier in time with Snyde, the Porter’s child, challenging expectations and finding a way to spend time inside St Oswald’s. We see developing relationships and watch the key moments in this character’s life that come to shape their present. These earlier sections really help build a picture of the school and what it represents to those within its walls.Central to the story is old Classics master Roy Straitley. One of the old guard, he rejects many of the new advances being brought into education and is presented as a man on his way out. At the same time as Straitley is contemplating retirement there are five fresh-faced staff joining the school. One of them is determined to ruin the place, desperate to right the wrongs they feel have taken place there.The plotting starts small. Missing items, misplaced objects and miscommunication. Gradually the severity of the interference picks up. Lives are being ruined. As we draw to the grim conclusion Harris pulls what is, I’m sure, meant to be a fine sleight of hand. I hadn’t identified the character, but the unexpected twist was spotted, and it leaves us with a rather unsettling suggestion as to where this character might pour their attentions in the next phase.
2312077711	"Xeque ao Rei" foi um dos livros de Joanne Harris, cujo tema nunca me atraiu particularmente (apesar de eu em pequena adorar a escola e em adulta dizer repetidas vezes que já devia ter nascido na Faculdade), e que acabei por deixar para ler por último. Li até à data praticamente tudo o que ela escreveu, embora não me tenha sentido atraída (ainda; o que não quer que um dia não mude) a ler os livros das runas que publicou. E agora peguei neste. Bem, que posso dizer? Quando um livro não me atrai à primeira vista só duas coisas costumam a acontecer: ou estou redondamente enganada e começo a lê-lo e adoro e lamento por não "ter privado" antes com ele a sério; ou estou redondamente certa e mesmo depois de o ler, continuo a achar que o livro não me conseguiu levar e fico uns dias a pensar numa relação tinha quase tudo para funcionar a 100% e nem lá perto chegou. Na maioria das vezes, é a segunda que mais acontece. Isto é, leio o livro e chego à conclusão que aquele livro não é para mim. Foi o que senti aqui.O livro está bem escrito, é inteligente, é misterioso e a autora continua com o mesmo talento para me fazer pensar "gosto mesmo de ler o que esta senhora escreve", porque tem um estilo muito próprio, mas depois... Fico com vontade de chegar depressa ao fim e ler outro livro. E sinto-me ausente. Incompleta. E perdida. Não me consegui encontrar em "Xeque ao Rei". Confusos? Pois, eu também. É um bom livro. Porém... Ou não é para mim de todo ou talvez seja melhor dar-lhe outra oportunidade daqui a algum tempo e lê-lo noutro momento da minha vida... !
7341809876	Latīņu valodas skolotājs Rojs Streitlijs, kuram darba stāžs ir virs 30gadiem, ne ar tām siltākajām jūtām uzņem informāciju tehnoloģiju pārmaiņu vēsmas, kuras sāk uzņemt apgriezienus privātajā St.Oswald puišu skolā. Bet tikpat ātrs, kā pretestību epastu izmantošanai, kā saziņas metodei, būtu tas darba vai citos nolūkos, Rojs ir uz citu un īpaši jauno kolēģu ielikšanai sev zināmās kategorijas un pat iesaukām pēc to pirmā radītā iespaida.https://poseidons99.com/2025/02/22/jo...
2902349969	Πραγματικά δεν έχω ξαναδιαβάσει ένα βιβλίο σαν αυτό και νομίζω πως ούτε πρόκειται να βρω ποτέ κάτι παρόμοιο.
579445844	Audere, agere, auferre.To dare, to strive, to conquerFor generations, privileged young men attended private schools like St. Oswald’s Grammar School for Boys, groomed for greatness and success. But this year the winds have turned, not only are suits, paperwork, and information technology threating to overwhelm the school and break the traditions of this elite school but someone is trying to corrupt and destroy St. Oswalds once and for all; this is a game for Gentlemen and Players.Nothing like a gentlemen’s game of revenue and murder, Joanne Harris’ novel is astonishing and surprising. I normally associate Joanne Harris with the likes of Chocolat, but when I heard she had written this dark psychological thriller, I had to read it right away. This is a game of idealism verses cynicism, equality verses privilege and principle verses corruption; this is a game of chess. I love how Harris wrote this whole sociopathic revenge novel using the themes of Chess. You have the black pawn moving silently trying to take down the white king.Roy Straitley is one of the narrators of this story, an unmarried classics master that tells us about life at St. Oswald’s, focusing on the day to day events, with the students and his work colleagues. Most importantly are The New Head (the king and only referred to as the new head even though he has been doing the job for 15 years), Pat Bishop (second master), Jeff Light (games Master), Chris Keane (new English Teacher) and Dianne Dare (also a new teacher in the French department). Straitley doesn’t know it yet but he is considered to be the white knight of this novel and the second narrative; the black pawn keeps their identity hidden till the very end (although if you are a keen chess player you might work it out in this review) and tells the story of early life at St Oswalds and their plans to destroy this school.I love how Joanne Harris wrote this book with the chess metaphor, but she used a couple of tricks to throw off who might be the sociopath. Not that I really have a problem with it, I had my suspicions of who it might have been and her cheap tricks really threw me off at times. There is some interesting name choices used in the book; like Bishop, and Light sounds a little like Knight, and these were just ways to help build this metaphor.While the reader will largely focus on working out just who is the person seeking revenge on St. Oswalds, this book also deals with entitlement and elitism. We know from near the start that the black pawn was poor and their father was the janitor so we know that the pawn holds so much hostility towards the rich and elite. So we know that we are dealing with the problem of not fitting in and being excluded. There are also elements of adolescent sexuality, gossip and tradition verse progress that are very clear throughout this book.This is a wickedly dark thriller that had me gripped from the very start, it had a real serial killer vibe to it when the black pawn took moves to strategically destroy this school and then you have this very proper and traditional account of life in an elite school. Naturally this narrative changes as the white knight slowly starts to understand there is imminent danger at his beloved school.While really entertaining and tricky, Joanne Harris also reminds us just how much lives depend on trust. This unsettling strategy to slowly plant seeds of doubt and suspicion could be futile. I found Gentlemen and Players to be a smart and witty psychological thriller; I never expected something so bleak to come from someone that wrote something as sweet as Chocolat. I’m reminded a little of The Talented Mr. Ripley when I read through this novel, sometimes I was surprised that Harris was able to outclass and fool me.This review originally appeared on my blog; http://literary-exploration.com/2013/...
368921873	A tightly plotted and difficult to put down sort of novel, I read it in a 24 hour period. I think Gentleman and Players has more in common with Blue Eyed Boy than it does with Harris’s earlier work and I wonder if we’re seeing a change of direction. Blackberry Wine, Chocolate, Coastliners and others from earlier in her career were very much tales about (and I think, for) women. Touched with magical realism and otherness, they had a warmth and hopefulness I haven’t registered so much in more recent books. Gentleman and Players, like Blue Eyed Boy, has a riveting, page turning plot line that those earlier works did not posses though, engaging though they were.I’ve mixed feelings. This was a fine read, a compelling story, but I do miss the old Joanne Harris. I’m hoping that in a book or two’s time, these two strands will blend together, and that we’ll get back the inspirational heroines, and see them sitting in the more powerful and cunning plots.I love Harris’s work, I’ll follow wherever she goes though. I think she’s one of the finest living English authors and does not get the recognition she deserves. But then, like other favourites of mine, she is both readable and clever. She reminds me in many ways of Du Maurier, another undersung great. Good art should be entertaining. Harris is entertaining, and also good art.
2432222294	This is most definitely one of my absolute favourite novels of all time. It is superb. Harris' writing captures the different personalities within the novel perfectly. Split between two characters you have Straitley and the mysterious individual on a mission to bring St Oswalds crashing to its knees.The tension builds and the cracks in the facade of St. Oswalds become apparent. I love Straitley as a character, indeed the observational humour across all of the characters is something special. This truly was a joy to read. I've read this book any number of times, it is an old favourite that I come back to periodically just to revel in the atmosphere and feel as though the characters are almost long long friends.In fact, everything about this book is a marvel. The cast of St. Oswalds are idiosyncratic and lovable. Harris has a true gift for bringing her characters to life and that is never clearer than here. And throughout this she weaves a tense and uncertain narrative, where you are never quite sure which corner stone of St. Oswalds is going to be the next target, or indeed who has got it out for the institution.It's clever, it's beautifully written and it will keep you guessing all the way through.
1691091170	There's no doubt about it - Joanne Harris is a fantastic storyteller.This tale of St Oswald's boys' grammar school is cleverly constructed. It's told from two perspectives, intertwining past and present, a psychological thriller of revenge. I'm afraid the chess analogy was a little lost on me, but the concept is of a game being played out, with moves, sacrificed pawns and a final checkmate.Excellent stuff, now onto blueyedboy.
1069879174	Una lettura inizialmente lenta, esplode nella seconda metà in un crescendo di colpi di scena. Una partita a scacchi, una vendetta covata per 14 anni, un desiderio di rivalsa, nella cornice di una prestigiosa scuola inglese, più attenta all'apparenza che alle persone dietro le divise.Un bel libro, scritto benissimo.
37579240	This is a nifty little thriller about the child of an English school's maintenance man who decides to destroy the school. It has humor, class conflict, English snobbery and all sorts of good stuff. I listened to the audio version from Audible.com and the reader was excellent. Highly recommended.
605869960	Loved the twists & turns in this novel. Cleverly written.
3492016158	Перечитала, всё ещё впечатлена сюжетом и его исполнением, но всё же не настолько абсолютно, как несколько лет назад. Впрочем, перечитала с удовольствием, а так бывает не с каждой книгой.
4148025088	3.5/5 i reckon. too long
2105391735	Premetto che non mi piacciono i romanzi a più voci, soprattutto quelli in cui non è chiaro chi stia parlando, perché se mi devo leggere tutte le prime pagine dei capitoli vagando nell'incertezza mi innervosisco e perdo il gusto per la lettura.Qui abbiamo un bambino, il figlio del custode della St. Oswald, un istituto maschile, un bambino con un morboso interesse per la struttura a cui gli è impossibile accedere. C'è poi Mr. Straitley, intimamente legato alla scuola, un insegnante vecchia maniera che mal digerisce i cambiamenti nella scuola.Leon è il tramite fra i due mondi. Il figlio del custode, dall'identità sconosciuta, indossata una divisa della St. O. e vi si intrufola trasformandosi in una persona diversa, non più un ragazzo bullizzato ma un freddo stratega. Anche il rapporto con Leon diventa morboso e sfocia nel prevedibile colpo di scena finale.Dopo i primi capitoli si intuisce che si sta giocando una partita a scacchi, quindi nn resta altro che vedere chi sarà il vincitore. Di scacchi non capisco niente, il libro è scritto bene ma non mi coinvolge. Sparizioni, omicidi, rancori e identità celate, fortunatamente si giunge, a fatica, ad una conclusione. Della Harris questo è il quinto libro che leggo e solo uno mi è piaciuto veramente. Sarà il caso di smettere?
8134191916	Um livro que no início me custou um bocadinho a ler e demorei um pouco a entrar na história. Mas confesso que não estava nada à espera do que fui encontrar....Uma escola de elite, com os seus valores e características, que acaba por induzir sentimentos de revolta e inferioridade numa criança, que não reúne os atributos essenciais para frequentar esse colégio...Um professor que vive para o ensino e para os seus alunos... A história vai sendo narrada em vários tempos, com vozes de diferentes personagens... Acho que no meu caso, gostaria de ter lido em inglês... Quando lerem, vão perceber porquê 😉
3711065723	Very good, psychological thriller with enough clues to get you partly there with answers but still some surprises right up to the end. I was initially confused by the two 1st person narrators, one of whom is unknown although obviously should be known to us (hint: the chess pieces are a help!) So good at portraying the outsider whom nobody notices (some people are doomed to be invisible, from childhood on), but who may come back to exact revenge, and also very good at the atmosphere of the school with its old buildings and traditions and the general sense of entitlement. Chilling.
3276216696	An absolutely fantastic thriller that kept me guessing until the very end. I was hooked from start to finish with the different but related threads to this story. My favourite read of the year so far.
2263006003	A funny little book. It’s captivating and every time I read some I wanted to read moreA really great twist that definitely makes you look back over the previous pages. Really original and a great read Recommended
5887292077	“Murderous in Chanel” is still a favorite quote from the book. I think it started a little slow, but the ending was definitely worth the wait. I didn’t guess the ending until very very late in the game (I partially blame the audiobook for that). Definitely gave dark academia vibes, which I’m always looking for in the fall.
2831816488	3.5-4.0 stars. More in my next Good Reads blog at https://www.sandiwallace.com/blog/.
4343074522	Начало прям на пятёрку было, а потом сюжет стал разворачиваться странным и неоднозначным образом, и показался притянутым за уши
1889493908	3,5
3264692303	Wow! I knew I'd love it and I did. Dusty Academia, Secret History vibes, solidarity and loyalty, a sluggish wickedness lurking behind a prim stone facade, waiting to strike... and a twist that made me laugh out loud, as obvious as it was unexpected. Bravo, Ms Harris, a winner indeed!
5334396648	Vooral einde was erg leuk. Ging helaas niet over schaken dus geen 5 sterren wegens de valse voorwendselen
6106468901	Fantastic! Joanne Harris has a knack for interesting, cleverly developed characters and plots. This book ranks as one of my favorites of hers! The plot twists and disguised identities will keep you guessing.I graduated from a school that is similar to St. Oswald’s in academic rigor and social standing. Harris did a great job of making such an atmosphere come to life. She shows the charm, the dark side and the idiosyncrasies of such hallowed institutions.Her characters are very unique and believable. I want to say more, but don’t want to ruin the surprises for you…I read this book for the 2024 ATY challenge: a book related to something you read in 2023
5743707691	пять звёзд.я получила от этой книги то, чего абсолютно не ожидала получить. эпиграф: девки, как же она слэит. по своей сути это типичная детективная история, с привычными нам элементами, типажами и ситуациями, но в таком прекрасном исполнении, что я не пожалела ни единой секунды, которые я потратила на эту книгу. история захватывает и интригует с первых глав - от лица главного героя авторка с самого начала выкладывает читателю два факта: 1) в прошлом Что То произошло (личная трагедия) и 2) в скором времени Кое Что обязательно произойдет (угроза, намерение). и обе эти тайны раскрываются в течении всей книги параллельно в двух разных временных отрезках - события 15 летней давности и все то, что происходит в настоящее время. эти две сюжетки связывает прежде всего главный герой, от лица которого ведется повествование (в прошлом - от лица двенадцатилетки-школьника, в настоящем - от лица повзрослевшего человека, ставшего учителем), а также, что не мало важно, сеттинг - английская частная школа для мальчиков, чувства героя к которой за всю жизнь прошли от слепого восхищения к ненависти и желанию ее уничтожить. при этом до самого конца нам неизвестна ни основная причина (что же все таки произошло в прошлом и стало переломным моментом), ни итог. по моему именно композиция истории, то как она закручена и ее хаотичный нарратив (именно хаотичный, поскольку даже в рамках одной главы мы можем прыгать от прошлого к настоящему, от точки зрения гг к мыслям других персонажей, и все это без какого либо очевидного индикатора), все это является главным плюсом этой книги - ее очень интересно читать, а саспенс просто невыносим в самом положительном значении этого слова. более того, после прочтения я пребываю в абсолютном восторге от того, насколько у авторки развито умение газлайтить читателей. честно? пять звезд уже просто за это. то, с какой легкостью ей удалось убедить меня в самом начале, что главный герой НОРМАЛЬНЫЙ (просто немножко силли гуффи и зациклен на мести своим Врагам, ну с кем не бывает), а не поехавший в край, как это есть на самом деле? 🙏😭 плачю. все это возможно именно благодаря легкому стилю авторки, которая сначала рассказывает нам как гг стырил ручку у коллеги и ехидно над этим посмеивается за кадром, а потом в таком же непринужденном тоне описывает как с каждым новым поступком его поведение эскалирует пока не начинает граничить с безумством и абсолютной жестокостью. на сцене с орешком ты вроде еще посмеиваешься и думаешь "ну дает...", на сцене с костром уже как то не очень смешно. что касается Самого Главного Плоттвиста, то я не уверена, чему стоит удивиться больше - тому насколько он типичен и предсказуем, или все же тому насколько я его не ожидала. плоттвист уж тооочно нельзя назвать новаторским, и я честно крайне не люблю такие сюжетные повороты - если бы я узнала, что Это произойдет в сюжете до того, как взялась за книгу, будем честными, я бы вряд ли стала ее читать. и очень зря. этот сюжетный поворот ощутился как пинок по коленке - шокирующий и выбивающий из колеи. я не могу сказать, что я очень внимательный чтец и возможно, кому то другому плоттвист покажется не настолько неожиданным или интересным, но лично я, если честно, и подумать не могла. во время чтения я буквально замерла и мне потребовалось пару мгновений, чтобы Осознать, что произошло. а потом я побежала перечитывать моменты, в которых НУ УЖ ТОЧНО должна была бы заметить что что то не так, и безуспешно. браво авторке за такой стиль и 5+ за газлайтинг, поскольку во время чтения ты сам додумываешь детали и убеждаешь себя в каких то фактах (казалось бы очевидных), о которых даже и не говорилось.в общем и целом! книга очень интересная и от нее трудно оторваться. я не на 100% в восторге от финала, но готова его принять. в книге очень много элементов, которые я рада оценить на пятерочку - обожаю сюжетки про учителей, мотив мести, восторженно-обсессивного отношения к чему либо, люблю персонажей-крыс - в общем уйма всего, о чем я действительно люблю читать. не уверена, что буду перечитывать эту книгу, потому что сколько не старайся, а такой же эмоциональной вовлечённости повторно достичь не удастся (ведь все тайны уже раскрыты), пусть и очень хочется. всем искренне советую и не могу поверить что наткнулась на такую конфетку практически случайно.
