214498199	It was no dream.Gregor Samsa awakes one day, changed forever. How unpredictable is life, one moment leading to a new labyrinth of existence where forward is the only motion available, our scars and choices following us in a tuneless parade with few interested spectators. Despite our lives being a personal struggle, it is constantly judged, criticized and appraised by all those whom we encounter. Oh, the injuries we inflict upon one another. We alienate and assume instead of communicate, we fear differences and we yell when we should love. Strange how the ones we love tend to be the ones we hurt, or hurt us the most. Kafka’s classic story The Metamorphosis is an alarming tale of alienation and hurt that seems fantastical on the outside to house a bitter pill of reality that has roots in us all. What is most compelling about Kafka is his ability to construct a tale from personal anxiety and injury that broadcasts as a universal message to all that read it, honing in on the guilt, loneliness and frustration in every heart. Gregor’s terrifying tale of transformation is a powerful rendition of guilt and the failure to succeed in a father’s eyes that utilizes religious imagery and fantastical occurences to drive the knife into the reader’s heart and soul.Gregor lives a life of solemn servitude to his job and, most importantly, his family. His job is a necessity to support a family whose debts accrued by the now-unemployed father are being repaid by the fruits of Gregor’s labor. While Gregor has provided the family with a modest home which he shares with them, the debt seems an unquenchable burden he can never fulfill. In the original German, the word schuld means both ‘debt’ and ‘guilt’¹, a critical texture to the text ironed away by translation that opens a gateway of understanding Gregor’s father issues. There is the guilt at being unable to satisfy the father, to live up to the father, and the senior Samsa is a quick tempered man. Kafka struggled with a strained relationship with his own abusive father, a struggle that he transformed into a literary theme permeating much of his artistic output. Much of Kafka’s life soaks into this work, much like the constant slamming doors he often complained of in his own household with his family.Despite his transformation, what initially upsets Gregor most is that he is missing work. I felt this sting deep within myself, being the head of a household and barely making ends meet despite long hours. The burden of the working class is to be so dependant on a job as life-blood creating a system of guilt and depraved necessity that pulls us from bed to work despite any affliction; we must work, we must provide, we must survive. To stumble is to die, yet even staggering onward seems just a slow suicide climbing towards an unattainable surface from our pit of existence. Gregor feels this, the reader feels this, and Kafka’s magic has been unleashed. To fail to work is yet another failure in the eyes of the obdurate father, but also in a society that is built to enrich the upper classes on the blood and sweat of the working class and at their expense. At its very core, this story is a critique of capitalism and the absurdities of upholding such a system.The father and the Father seem united in the character of the elder Samsa. Kafka himself struggled with his Jewish identity, made plain in his diaries. As Vladimir Nabokov points out in his exquisite lectures on The Metamorphosis², the number three is pivotal to the understanding of the story. The story is divided into three parts. There are three doors to Gregor’s room. His family consists of three people. Three servants appear in the course of the story. Three lodgers have three beards. Three Samsas write three letters. Three, of course, representing the Holy Trinity (there are many other important details surrounding three, such as the clock tower striking three after Gregor retreats into his room, or Gregor standing on his three hind legs since the fourth was damaged beyond repair). The rejection and unfulfillment of the father is also Gregor’s failure to be valuable in the eyes of the Father, God, and perhaps this may be the cause of the unexplained (and rather unquestioned for the most part) transformation that has befallen the poor man. The fatal blow pinning Gregor to the ground like a crucified Christ (while this may be a slight stretch, there are other Christ-like references such as the sudden pain in Gregor's side much like the spear in the side while on the cross) is an Edenic apple thrown from the father, rotting and festering in him like our sins until we breath our last.‘All language is but a poor translation,’ said Kafka, made evident in Gregor’s failure to communicate in his new form. Communication is the cornerstone of understanding others, and being stripped of his voice severs his link to his family and humanity. ‘That was the voice of an animal,’ the office chief exclaims after Gregor attempts to communicate with them through language. With his loss of language, his family slowly ceases to view him as Gregor but as a dumb beast, easing them into letting go of their notions that he is still Gregor. He is now an unproductive, dumb hindrance to their lives and they begin to forget him and move on to a productive life of work and family without him. It is like an invalid aging relative, many continue to care for them out of respect for their memory, but the person slowly becomes a chore or a burden and not a human-being in their minds. Another view of Gregor in his new state is that of a person stricken by crushing depression or other mental or emotional ailments where those around them begin to view them by their illness and not their soul. They forget the person that is still there, the person they know and love, and dwell on the chasm forged between them. It is human nature, it makes it easier to cope. How many people walk away when times get tough, even abandon the ones they love because it is easier to convince yourself they are not the person you loved than it is to fight for them or fight for what was once had. Kafka’s genius is that he took a personal experience and related it as a universal parable with endless interpretations, each unique and equally valid as they blossom within each respective reader.It is interesting that the story occasionally translates Samsa into a cockroach whereas Vladimir Nabokov has asserted that Samsa is, in fact, a beetle. Kafka prohibited artistic depictions of Samsa and wrote him with an intentional vagueness. ‘Kafka wanted us to see Gregor’s new body and condition with the same hazy focus with which Gregor himself discovers them,’ theorizes translator Susan BernofskyRereading this story was a rewarding experience and I very much connected with it. Gregor was a traveling businessman, and I am a traveling delivery driver. The musings on the plight and unique depression of long hours in strange faraway places hit home, as well as the notion from everyone else that traveling in such a manner is some royal treat. Granted, I greatly enjoy the work and the freedom of being, essentially, a professional vagrant, yet there is a tinge of alienation being a person without an anchor, always on the move, always chasing a horizon. The feelings of guilt, of alienation, the struggles with family, everything range true plucking my heartstrings like a guitar to form a foreboding yet fantastic melody. Kafka is as relevant to the modern reader as he was in his own time with themes that illuminate us with their timeless insight into society and the individual.4.5/5I cannot make you understand. I cannot make anyone understand what is happening inside me. I cannot even explain it to myself.¹ There is an interesting article recently published by the BBC on ‘the German’s debt psyche’ and the cultural relationship between debt and guilt stemming from the word schuld.² There is a wonderful film adaptation of Nabokov’s lectures with Christopher Plummer as Nabokov. You can watch it here.
2533311847	UPDATE NOVEMBER 2025 Hi ya'll. I graduated. PhD! Not in literature (obviously). But I did it. Finally. And wow, this review is at 1500 likes, over 900 comments. I had no idea that the jokey review i wrote in 2018 would reach so many people. I took a peek in the comments and got spooked. Maybe someday I'll clean it up but honestly, I dread the idea of going through so much negativity. Hope you all are living your best lives whether you are reading 50 shades or metamorphosis or something in between. Have fun, life's too short for bad books. UPDATE FEBURARY 2021 I'm in grad school for crepes sake. I got a thesis to write. I don't have time to argue in the comments. To the people raising hell over me not liking/getting The Metamorphosis...sometimes I want to say, hmm...perhaps you just don't "get" my review? Perhaps it went over your head??... but that would be rude and being rude (even on the internet) would make me feel bad. But also, it's not up to me to convince them that I have the right to a negative opinion. Could you imagine a world like that? Where you are ONLY allowed to think positively about literature and if you aren't, then an angry mob of "literature lovers" will harass you for literally years? What a world that would be...Ps. thank you for the positive comments as well. I appreciate them. Pps. High five to those of you who have read this book and felt like me, that it was a rather pointless tale about a bug that died. Don't let anyone ever tell you different (ha). UPDATE MARCH 2020 Hi.It's me.Your friendly neighborhood reader.You all want to know why people don't like reading the classics? Try reading the comments.I didn't like this book and wrote a jokey review in 2018. People freaked out because A) I didn't like the book and B) poked fun at this classic in my review. The horror.Two years and 300+ comments later...annnnd *drum roll* and people won't leave this review alone. Yeeeeesh. A BIG EFFING DISCLAIMER (January 2019): I read books for fun, not to better myself.I originally published this review MONTHS ago, for a book published DECADES ago... and I just want to say: Reviewers be warned.People are not the forgiving sort if you don't like this book. It seems that some classics must be liked, or else .Since publishing this review, many people have posted their interpretations of this book - some of which I can see, some of which I don't buy and some that really are quite brilliant.People seem convinced that if only I (the "stupid broad" as one now-deleted comment said) could understand the d*man book , then my "absolute idiocy" could be resolved and I wouldn't have to worry about my children "inheriting the stupid."While your sentiments about my future children were strong (and no doubt your hearts were in the right place), I'm afraid that won't help them. They are doomed. Even if the most stunningly accurate interpretation of the novel comes into my life, that doesn't change the fact that I didn't like the book. I'm not a professional. I'm not an English teacher. I have never claimed to be anything other than an avid reader. Just because I'm a "casual" doesn't mean that I'm only going to stick to fluffy novels. I like to branch out, sometimes with awesome and sometimes with awful results. And this one just didn't work for me. The Original Review - (February 2018) If you are someone who is looking for a serious interpretation kindly check out another. There plenty of brilliant interpretations of this novel, and so many people LOVE it. Unfortunately, I did not. I cannot make you understand. I cannot make anyone understand what is happening inside me. I cannot even explain it to myself. Allow me to explain it to you then: You (Gregor) turned into a giant bug. Your family alternated between fearing, caring, and loathing you in your bug-body. Ultimately, you began doing lots of creepy bug-things and became a burden to them.Then you starved to death and your parents got their spare bedroom back.Okaaaay, if you haven't already guessed, I didn't enjoy this one. I am not a fan of books where things just *happen* without any sort of explanation. Nor if books that give off a consistently dreary feeling throughout. I could summarize the entire book as: Gregor turns into a bug, it was not a smart move. Which is slightly misrepresenting the book - cause the book actually has Gregor turning into a bug without any rhyme or reason.Actually. Wait a moment.This is probably one of those books where everything is a representation of something significant in real life. An "Important Novel", if you will. Lemme Wikipedia this.................Ok. I'm back.Apparently the bug thing is either a metaphor for a "father complex" (Gregor's dad was the most anti-Gregor/anti-bug character) or a take on the "artist struggle" (Gregor's sister is the cruelest, because she can make music).I mean, maybe? I guess that could be what the book means...? There's a cruel father and a gifted daughter...but who knows.I guess the book is so open to interpretation that it could literally mean just about anything. It kind of feels like one of those books just written for the hell of it and then some English teachers got a hold of it and now it's become an Important Novel. Therefore, I'm going to stick with my original interpretation - it's a rather pointless novel about a bug that dies.Personally, I did not like the style, the characters and the ending. It felt painful to read, the emotions and the feelings associated with the events just felt incredibly depressing.Plus, as a personal pet peeve - plenty of things happen without a solid explanation or clear motivation... which actually funnels back into my "English teachers got ahold of this novel" theory quite well. Ultimately, this took up time that I can never get back and I don't think I'll ever enjoy it. How about if I sleep a little bit longer and forget all this nonsense
786444205	كم مرة رغب كافكا في الموت؟كم مرة أراد التلاشي من هذا العالم؟كم مرة شعر بالغربة حتى عن ذاته؟إن كان التورية تعرّي فلا تعرية مثل التي وجدناها ‏هنا في هذا العمل الأدبي الفريد ،،الموجع و-ياللغرابة ‏الممتع للغاية يرسم كافكا العلاقة بين الإنسان ونفسهيمزق كل المتعارف عليهيثور ويلقي بكل ما عرفناه سلفًا في الناريتفرج على الحريق باستمتاع و حزن ‏وشعور عميق بالذنب لا يفارقه;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;يـا لكلِّ هذا الوجعيـا لهذا الاغتراب ‏ويالهذه الروح التي تشهق بينما تجرها أشباح في بذلات أنيقة ونظارات مذهبة الأطر إلى أعماق ‏بركة آسنة من الانصياع للعرف والتقاليد ويالهذا المتمرد النازف أبدًا‏!‏هذا الحزن الغير معقول الذي ينتابنا عند القراءةهذا الألم كنصل سكين مغروس في قلبك وأنت ترى ‏التفاحة اللعينة مغروسة في ظهر جريجور الذي بدأ ‏يحتضر بطيئًا بسبب نزوة غضب سخيفة من أب ‏حقيرتبدأ الدموع تغشاك وهو يزهد في الدنيا ويتقوقع ‏وحده مسكينا تحت الأريكة بلا رغبة في الطعام أو ‏حتى في مجرد تسلق سقف الغرفة وحوائطها كما ‏اعتاد قبلاتتعفن التفاحة ،، تتصلب أعضاؤك وتشعر بالبرد ‏يغشاكتغزو روحك الهزيمة وأنت ترى الغبار يتراكم حوله ‏وأرجله تنثني بلا حول تحته ‏وقبل أن تنفذ العائلة الملعونة خطة "التخلص" منه ‏يكون هو قد أسلم الروح في صمت;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;كان كافكا ممن عنوا بشأن البرجوازية وأثارها ‏المحطة من قدر الانسان العادي والتي تقلل من ‏‏‏"إنسانيته" حتى أنه يتحول مع خضوعه المستمر ‏للقوانين لحشرة بينما تفتقر العائلة التي طحنتها ‏‏الحاجة إلى المشاعر الآدميةفالخضوع للقوانين غير الأخلاقية (في هذه الحالة الاستبداد بكل أشكاله) يعني انهيار كل ما ‏هو ‏انساني بداخل الفردأما عدم الخضوع لكل ذلك فيعني ببساطة الموتحاول جريجور قدر ما حاول أن يتبع القوانينأن يكون ولدًا مهذبًاأن يساعد عائلته وأن يفنى نفسه لإعالتهاأن يكون "عقلانيًا" كما وصفه مديره بالعملوبين كل هذه المحاولات الصادقة نجده فقد نفسه تمامًأ ‏فيعيش أزمة وجود كوميدية وحزينة ومثيرة للعجب إن ذات جريجور"تغترب" عنهتنقسمترحل بعيدًا ‏تترك له هذا الكائن المسكين المثير لتقزز البشرفهل كان جريجور "يتحول" حقًا أم أنه "انقسم" ذاتيا تاركا جزءًا "أصيلًا" منه في الغرفة وفي ‏الحياة؟إن عقلانية جريجور تتخذ أكثر أشكال العبثية في صدمة أدبية فريدة من نوعها;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;العقلاني واللاعقلاني دوما ما يتداخلان في أدب كافكا ‏وبينما يتجلى اللاعقلاني حول الشخصيات ‏في أدب ‏آخر ينقل كافكا اللاعقلانية "بداخل" الشخصية بحيث ‏ينبع منها ويتجسم و"يتحول" إلى ‏غرائب وعجائب ‏لا نجدها في يومنا ال"عادي"‏رأى المفكر روجيه جارودي أن كافكا خلق عالمه الخاص ‏بمواد عالمنا نحن ولكن مع إعادة ترتيبها وفقاً لقوانين "أخرى" ‏تماماًكان كافكا يصنع الصدمة بطريقة خاصة به وحدهفقبل نقطة نهاية الجملة الأولى ‏يصدمك تماما بالكلمة ‏التي جاءت ببساطة "حشرة" أو "مسخ"‏هكذا بطريقة كوميدية ساخرة صادمة تمامًا قد عرفت ‏أننا في قصة تتحداك من السطر الأولوفي الرواية بقى السرير بدلالاته العديدة مولد هذه الأفكار ‏العبثية ‏فبدلا من أن يصحو جريجور "من" الكابوس يصحو ‏ليجد نفسه "بداخله" فعلاربما كان كابوس جريجور أنه "بقى" آدميًا في هذا ‏العالم المقزز ولم "يتحول"‏من يدري حقًا بماذا حلم جريجور في هذا اليوم ‏العجيب؟;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;إن سامسا ‏هو كافكالا فقط في كل إحالة من الرواية لحياته الشخصية كقسوة الأب والعلاقة الحميمة الواهنة باخته ‏التي اعتنت به في فترة إصابته بالأرق ‏بل أيضا في اللفظة نفسهاإن نطقت سامسا ستجدها مطابقة لكلمة كافكا في الحركات والسكون كذلكهيرمان كافكا- فرانز كافكا‏علاقة كافكا بأبيه الجزار(القصّاب) الشرس تتجسد ‏في كثير من أعماله الأدبية ‏فمثلا في قصة الحكم نجد ‏الحوار بين الاثنين ينتهي بركض الابن مرسعًا ليقتل نفسه ،، ‏لقد ‏أصدر الوالد الحكم وما عليه سوى التنفيذوهذه القسوة الرهيبة التي يحملها الأب دومًا ويعامل ‏بها ابنه تبدو غير مبررة ‏،،حيوانية،،لاعقلانية ‏وعبثية تماماوهناك شعوران أساسيان يتضافران معافبينما يبدو كافكا مغمورا في شعوره بالذنب ‏والخطيئة –كونه وُلد أساسا أو تواجد بهذه الحياةنجد دوما هذا العقاب والانتقام والحرب الباردة التي ‏يشنها كافكا على والده ‏فهو ينتقم منه على الورقيحيله وحشا بأنياب ويجلده مرة بعد أخرىإن الانتقام جنبا إلى جنب مع الشعور الرهيب بالذنب ‏كانا أساس كل ما كتبه كافكا عن والده مرة ‏بعد مرة صورة مجمعة لأبوي كافكا;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;الطريف أنه في الوقت الذي كُتبت فيه هذه النوفيلا البديعة لم تكن ‏تعني كلمة حشرة التي نستخدمها الآن حرفيا سوى ‏حيوان غير نظيف لا يصح استخدامه كأضحية" ‏""ungeheures Ungeziefer"أي أن كافكا اختار مصطلحا غامضا ليبني عليه قصتهوبالتالي ستجد في الترجمات العالمية جميعها أنواعا ‏لا تحصى من الحشرات ومثيلاتها ‏حتى بالعربية نجد من سماها بالمسخ وغيره ممن ‏سماها بالدودة العملاقةأما فلاديمير نوباكوف الروائي الشهير فكان يرى أن ‏سامسا تحول لخنفساء مستندا على سطور معينة ‏بالروايةاقرأوا-كافكا#
11132505	Gregor waking up one morning as a bug was a hilarious analogy of the effects an illness can have on someone, as well as on those who are close to him. Though the underlying story behind the hilarity of the analogy was anything but funny. I took it as more of a warning of what NOT to do when a loved-one is afflicted by some unfortunate disease or circumstance. I found his resistance of acknowledging to himself that he had become a bug in the beginning of the story to be very interesting. When he couldn't ignore his state any longer, he looked to others' reactions as to how he would look at his own condition. As he was trying to unlock his bedroom door to let his parents and supervisor in, he thought, "If they took fright, then Gregor would have no further responsibility and could rest in peace. But if they took it all calmly, then he had no reason to get excited either and he could, if he hurried, actually be at the station by eight."The reaction of those around him, and most importantly, those of his closest loved-ones, is what influenced his own attitude towards himself and his own state. He became completely ashamed of himself, striving to completely hide himself from view, though it took great effort and pain on his part to do so. His imprisonment, or rather, his confinement from the company of others, had a devastating affect upon his mental well-being and in turn, affected his physical well-being. Such a sad story and the fact that his family didn't feel remorse for their actions, but relief for themselves at his death... I don't believe Kafka was trying to say this is how humans are indubitably, even though most of them try to put on a show of galantry and higher morals. But that humans certainly can become some of the most self-serving, self-centered creatures on Earth. It serves as a warning to us all that while it is good to allow others to serve us from time to time, it is far better to always serve others. Gregor's family had all become accustomed to being taken care of by him. They didn't even mind that he was held in servitude to pay off their debts. This was made evident when the fact was made known that Gregor's father had been saving up extra money earned by Gregor, when it could have been used to pay for his freedom much sooner. Gregor, on the other hand, had been serving his family and loved them purely because of it. His first thought was not of himself, but of the hardship his condition would cause his family.So lest we fall into such an ugly state of existence, let us guard ourselves by serving those we love, thus loving more those we serve.
4213240152	“would you still love me if i was a worm?” except it’s a whole book
26666352	I once used my copy to kill a beetle. Thereby combining my two passions: irony and slaughter. *wields*
3291008004	there was a trend going around on tiktok for a while where girls would ask their boyfriends, ‘if i were a worm, would you still date me?’ those girls are literally this MC, except gregor samsas tiktok would be him asking his family, ‘if i were an insect, would you still love me?’ and the answer is a hard NO. at face value, i found this to be a rather weird and super depressing story. and this book is a perfect example of why i have such a love/hate relationship with stories that are considered classics. i read for entertainment, so i generally prefer not having to analyse the text in order to get a full understanding of the story. and this is one that requires deep analysis. gosh, any reader could spend hours trying to interpret this novella. religiously, psychologically, socially - all are different interpretations this story could take. not to mention the influence of different translations. but i found that i just didnt care enough about the story to put in all that effort. maybe one day i will take the time to figure out what it all truly means. if i do, i have no doubt i will be able to appreciate this story more, like many other readers. but as of right now, im just not in the mood. ↠ 2.5 stars
2494482747	- "التحول"، افضل ترجمة ممكنة لهذه الرواية، اقرب بكثير من "المسخ" او "الدودة" او غيرها من الترجمات لأنها تضرب صلب الرواية مباشرة: فهذه الرواية ليست فانتازيا ولا خيال علمي ولا كوميك بل هي في صلب فلسفة كافكا للعلاقات الإنسانية، تباينها، تحولها وتغرّبها...- "جريجور" الشاب المثابر، النشيط، البار والمعيل لعائلته، الذي لا يكل ولا يمل في سبيلهم (ام واب واخت) والذي لديه تطلعات لحياة كريمة يعيشونها.. يستيقظ فإذ به قد تحول الى "حشرة" او "مسخ"، فيصطدم بنفور اهله واحد مسؤولي عمله، فيقبع في غرفته، في الظلام، تحت الكنبة وتبدأ القصة والمعاناة والإهمال والتنصّل من المشاعر، واللامبالاة فالإستغناء فتمني العدم من اجل اكمال الحياة (الأهل) فالنهاية الأليمة والمتوقعة....- هل نحن بحاجة لنتحول لحشرات كي ندرك ما كتبه كافكا؟! بالتأكيد لا، فالإنسان بطبعه ناكر للجميل ومتكيّف مع المتغيرات الا ما رحم ربي، فالأب الذي يرميه ابناؤه على الطريق بعد ان كد وتعب طوال عمره هو هذه الحشرة، والأم التي ترمى اكراماً لزوجة هي تلك الحشرة، والأخت والأخ....- سلّط كافكا الضوء على ما نريد ان نفعله ولا يمكننا فعله، او لا تخولنا قدراتنا الجسدية من فعله، وهذا ربما ما يتوافق مع المثل العربي (العين بصيرة واليد قصيرة)- وجّه كافكا النقد ايضاً للنظام الرأسمالي الذي لا يهمه سوى العمل والعمل، بغض النظر عن صحة العامل ورأيه وتعبه، كما سلّط الضوء على المجتمع الرأسمالي والعلاقات المبنية على المنفعة، وكيف تنقطع العلاقة بسقوط المنفعة.النقطة الرائعة التي وجدتها هي محاولة "جريجور" التعلق بإنسانيته ومنع امه من انتزاع صورته عن الحائط كمحاولة لإبقاء الرابط ما بينه وما بين الإنسانية رغم عبثية هذا الرابط... وهذا الرابط يمكن ان نعاينه بتعلق كبار السن بماضيهم او تعلق الجندي ببزته العسكرية بعد التقاعد او او ...- اخيراً، لماذا اختار كافكا الدودة التي تتحول لفراشة؟ لما لم يختر حشرة اخرى! اهو للقول بتحرر الروح وانطلاق الفراشة!؟ ام للقول برغم المآسي فقد يأتي الجميل من القبيح... لا ادري
1025493844	Kafka’s classic tale written in 1912 is about the changes that can come about in our lives. Up until the very end, the entire tale takes place in an apartment of a mother, father, son and daughter. The son is unfortunately unable to continue to perform his job as a traveling salesman and support his family financially. This abrupt change forces the father, mother and daughter to exert more energy in their lives and take steps to earn money. Here is a word about each member of the family:The Father – At the beginning of the tale he is too worn out to even stand up straight and walk across the apartment without pausing. At the end, he stands up straight, combs his white hair neatly, wears a uniform smartly in his new job working for a bank and can take charge of family situations and challenges with authority.The Mother – At the outset, she is weak and helpless. At the end, she does the household cooking and helps support her family through taking in sewing.The Daughter – A wan stay-at-home at the beginning and a healthy out-in-the-world worker at the end. At the very end, this 17 year-old blossoms into an attractive young lady, a real catch for some lucky guy.This Kafka tale is, in some important ways, the forerunner of such books as How to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie. ---------------------------------------------------------------------Of course, what I've written above is tongue-in-cheek. Not to be taken seriously!Review of The Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka ---- Take 2If I didn’t write this ‘Take 2’ I suspect my book review would be the first in nearly 100 years not to mention Gregor wakes up transformed into an enormous bug. Since there already so many reviews posted, I’d like to offer several brief observations:• What is it about our attempt to maintain the status quo? Gregor is transformed into a monstrous verminous bug and all he and his mother and father and sister can ask is: ‘How can we change things back to how they were?’.• The objective 3rd person narrator lets us know directly that although Gregor’s body has transformed, he still has his human mind with its memories. Why does his family assume Gregor lost his human mind? If they wanted, they could simply ask him questions to find out. For example, ‘Gregor, if you can understand what I am saying, move over to the right side of your room’. This speaks volumes about how people are too narrow in their thinking to deal with life creatively and with imagination. • What adds to the eeriness of Kafka tale is Gregor’s metamorphosis is in stark contrast to the humdrum regularity of the family in their apartment. The possible exception is the absurdist scene at the beginning where Gregor’s manager knocks on the door and insists on knowing why Gregor missed the early morning train. This combination of these opposites is a stroke of genius.• The most insightful review of this Kafka tale I’ve read is from Vladimir Nabokov ------ http://www.kafka.org/index.php?id=191.... Nabokov adjudged Kafka’s tale the greatest novel of the 20th century behind Joyce’s Ulysses.
591891361	Some modern personal transformations are no less dramatic than those immortalized by Ovid…One morning, when Gregor Samsa woke from troubled dreams, he found himself transformed in his bed into a horrible vermin. He lay on his armour-like back, and if he lifted his head a little he could see his brown belly, slightly domed and divided by arches into stiff sections. The bedding was hardly able to cover it and seemed ready to slide off any moment. His many legs, pitifully thin compared with the size of the rest of him, waved about helplessly as he looked.On turning into the loathsome insect, Gregor Samsa actually acquired his authentic essential nature – his body just had come into accordance with his inner insectival self. In his new shape, his parents had no sympathy for him and for his sister he has become a kind of a pet.Strange may it seem but Gregor’s metamorphosis had set his family free – everyone became more independent and his kin began to feel that they have some obligations.Gregor drew his head back from the door and lifted it to look at his father. Truly, this was not the father he had imagined to himself; admittedly he had been too absorbed of late in his new recreation of crawling over the ceiling to take the same interest as before in what was happening elsewhere in the flat, and he ought really to be prepared for some changes. And yet, and yet, could that be his father? The man who used to lie wearily sunk in bed whenever Gregor set out on a business journey; who welcomed him back of an evening lying in a long chair in a dressing gown; who could not really rise to his feet but only lifted his arms in greeting, and on the rare occasions when he did go out with his family, on one or two Sundays a year and on high holidays, walked between Gregor and his mother, who were slow walkers anyhow, even more slowly than they did, muffled in his old greatcoat, shuffling laboriously forward with the help of his crook-handled stick which he set down most cautiously at every step and, whenever he wanted to say anything, nearly always came to a full stop and gathered his escort around him? Now he was standing there in fine shape; dressed in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, such as bank messengers wear; his strong double chin bulged over the stiff high collar of his jacket; from under his bushy eyebrows his black eyes darted fresh and penetrating glances; his onetime tangled white hair had been combed flat on either side of a shining and carefully exact parting.Nonentity’s tragedy was just his own tragedy and when he disappeared, everyone could breathe easy.It makes me wonder how many paltry insects are really hiding behind human masks.
5503244355	Wow, this was brilliant! (I wasn’t surprised to learn that one of Kafka’s greatest influences was Fyodor Dostoyevsky)
41526537	I suspect interpreting Kafka says more about the reader than the author so here's some insight into my psyche:Gregor's family are losers. Gregor takes over the "bread winner" position after his father's business fails and provides enough money for the family to live as well as help to pay down the large debt his father's business incurred. The rest of them are fine to let him and sit on their asses. Gregor's father is perfectly healthy, but is happy to mooch too. Then, we find out that his father has been squirreling away Gregor's money on the side to boot.Gregor works for five years in this manner, never missing a day of work, and the first day he is ill they are jerks. Yet, when the vermin dies and they are employed, they all sit down quick to write letters of excuse for themselves. When the vermin's alive it's an excuse to not leave the house; when he dies they can't work.They deplore the fact that the vermin cannot understand them despite evidence to the contrary when he hears them talk and follows their instructions (eg. to get back in the room, etc.). Furthermore, they make no effort to communicate with him. I'd like to think if a loved one turned into an insect and I decided to keep them alive in a bedroom of my house, I would get around to trying the blatantly obvious "Hiss one for yes, two for no" routine.In short, f--- you Gregor's family. You suck.
234074417	Gregor Samsa awakes from a bad dream, into a mad nightmare, as he struggles, stuck in his own bed this weary, young traveling salesman, has overnight been miraculously transformed... incredibly Gregor is now a hideous bug, a dung beetle , or even a cockroach does it really matter what ? He has missed his train in more ways than one, but Samsa, is a real trooper, still thinks he can catch the locomotive and make that vile business trip, eventually getting off the bed with great difficulty, just a slight crash, in truth, opening the locked door somehow and moving around on the floor, in his many, new, ugly little legs the parents and sister are greatly shocked, at his new repulsive appearance. And when the office manager arrives to see what happened , big mistake, he spots Samsa and is out the door without a word spoken (twitching a little). Now the "Bug" becomes a burden to his lazy, ungrateful family after years of Gregor supporting them, all by himself (a job he hated, with a big passion), they much embarrassed , hide him in his modest quiet room, feeding the "monstrous vermin", leftover garbage from their table scraps, a menu the bug implausibly prefers...Months pass and it becomes obvious something has to give, the reader will decide is Samsa a real dung beetle, or is he mentally ill? But to some, the gist of the fable is, how much does your family love you? A brutal depiction of a family in tremendous turmoil...expediency triumphs.
4107422221	Gregor’s transformation into a bug is no ordinary plight, and yet the fallout of this event is bitterly recognizable. Relatable, even. In fact, I associate myself with Gregor so exactly that it is almost as if Kafka had been writing—in his veiled, symbolic way—about my queer anxieties, just as they are today, in this summer of 2021.For context, let me briefly address what’s going on in my life before getting into the novel.I am a thirty-two year old gay man who recently “came out” to his deeply religious family. I use quotes here because I did not so much come out as stop tip-toeing around this aspect of my life. For several years my family has known about my boyfriend and yet believes any recognition of my relationship will “condone” the abominable act. So they pretend he doesn’t exist. Whenever my boyfriend’s name comes up, they turn to ice, go completely silent until the topic moves on to something else. I can return home for a visit, provided I travel alone and never speak of my personal life, otherwise I am not invited. Having finally grown exhausted of this game, I informed my parents and siblings that if I could not see them with my boyfriend by my side, I simply couldn’t see them anymore. The response was flat “then I guess we won’t see each other for a while.” And by “for a while” the subtext is, until I’m not gay—or at least until I’m not openly gay.With this dilemma bubbling around in my head, I found it shocking that every detail in Kafka’s bizarre 1915 novel served as a parable for my experience, and indeed many other queer experiences which I haven’t personally encountered. It begins with the image of a locked door.Gregor’s titular metamorphosis occurs behind closed doors, with his entire family “knock[ing] lightly” from both the main entrance and a side door leading to Gregor’s room. The family understands something is wrong, Gregor is usually quite punctual for work, and his mother makes excuses on his behalf: “‘He is not well, believe me, Mr. Manager…the young man has nothing in his head except business. I’m almost angry that he never goes out at night.”Meanwhile, the sister goes so far as to “beg” him to come out. The irony is, of course, that once the family gains access to Gregor (and thus Gregor’s secret) they are appalled and close the door again. Such probing accusations—“‘What is wrong? You barricade yourself in your room, give us no more than yes or no for an answer, you are causing serious and unnecessary concern to your parents…’”—have a familiar echo to my own experiences. These translate in my head as “Why are you so quiet? Why don’t you ever pursue that cute girl? What is wrong with you?”To those on the outside, these seem like ordinary questions capable of ordinary answers. But being inside the locked room, you know these answers will destroy your family relationship. Even slight hints at the truth—such as when Gregor hits his insect head against the door and makes a “small sound”—have the chilling effect of “silenc[ing] everyone.” That queer sound alone is enough for the family to freeze in horror. Not in optimism—is he communicating with us?—but revulsion. Something they do not want shared with third parties. Something they would rather not think about themselves.The phrase “coming out of the closet” has long been used for revealing one’s sexuality, with some evidence that similar comparisons were used in Kafka’s time. In any case, the closet metaphor serves well because the image of a tightly-spaced room, typically with no light source, accurately represents the stifling, oppressive feeling queer persons feel while hiding from a heterocentric society. The social recuperations of being “seen” are too great a risk.Existing in a dark space, one is used to eavesdropping, of analyzing how much light can be seen through the keyhole, of vast hope whenever someone accidentally leaves the door open—are they signaling acceptance? Is it safe to come out now?Gregor similarly finds himself “pressed upright against the door and listening” to his family talk about him to gauge how much he matters to them in his present form. He reads into everything he hears, hoping for signs that he is still part of the family, a “friendly word.”There's a fleeting moment when the sister enters his room to tidy up and provide food. Feeling optimistic, Gregor makes himself seen—slightly—to test her level of acceptance. Her revulsion assures him the timing is not right, however, so he reverts deeper into his hiding place under the sofa—a closet within a closet. He goes so far as to spend “four hours” “drag[ging] a sheet” over the couch so that his sister does not have to endure seeing “small parts of his body” which “stuck out.”As a queer person with an unaccepting family, this dance is yet again all too familiar. I have my own sister who I imagine very much views me as a hideous bug; a blight on the family. As time goes on I imagine she will change, that even if my “bugginess” continues to bother her she will choose to accept a bug as family. On the phone, I occasionally push boundaries. When she asks “What did you do this weekend?” I might daringly respond “Me and Ryan went to the movies” to see what happens. So far the reaction has not changed. She still turns to ice, letting the dead silence linger on the line until I inevitably say “What did you do?” so that she can promptly change the subject.Like Gregor below the sofa, I usually limit my speech to “Nothing really,” or something sufficiently vague, as a courtesy to her so that she doesn’t have to be exposed to the grotesque details of my ordinary life. Or maybe I do it for me. It’s not worth hearing her disgust in that long, hate-filled silence. Either way, I’m a bug hiding beneath a sofa with a sheet draped over it.That Gregor continues to love his sister, even after she becomes increasingly cruel, is not surprising—I too continue to love my obstinate sister—because there is so much textual evidence to show that the Samsa siblings were particularly close prior to the metamorphosis.Gregor worked relentless hours to keep his family financially stable. He even set aside extra wages so he could “send [his sister] to the conservatory.” Today we could compare this to paying for her college tuition. Additionally, their names—Gregor and Grete—have a similar ring to them and imply the two are a well-suited pair. Till the bitter end, even after she spearheads a plan to kill him, his sister is the one he trusts and admires most.Another reason Gregor never condemns his sister’s cruelty is the common queer experience of internalized homophobia. This occurs when queer individuals begin to view themselves as abhorrent because that is how others view them. Lines such as “there was, of course, no question of her ever becoming fully used to the situation” and “[it is] a requirement of family duty to suppress one’s aversion and to endure – nothing else, just endure” and “his mother…was perhaps near death, thanks to him” show a growing ideology that Gregor sees himself as a problem which, in the best of circumstances, can be begrudgingly tolerated and at worst is killing his family.This internalized homophobia climaxes, as it often does for queer persons, in death. As he lay dying, with “pains throughout his entire body,” Gregor feels “relatively content,” with “deep feelings of love” for his family. Most telling is the line: “his own thought that he had to disappear was, if possible, even more decisive than his sister’s.”After seeing himself as a burden on his family for so long, the reason for their unhappiness and the hideous creature they see in him, he is ready for his life to end because he feels it will be for the greater good.Gregor’s death is not a suicide—though his relief in death can certainly be viewed as suicide-esque—but rather the result of a festering wound from an apple that his enraged father threw at him after Gregor un-hid himself in front of his mother, causing her great distress. The “festering wound” is one of the finest symbolic moments to illustrate that Gregor’s death is the result of lingering insult that sticks to the skin (or exoskeleton) long after the initial confrontation. Even Mr. Samsa’s fruit of choice carries the symbolic weight that particularly resonates with my experience growing up in a deeply religious household.Gregor’s father hurls from a “fruit bowl” and yet, if the bowl contains a variety of fruits, it is only apples used for ammunition. Indeed, “It was an apple” is one of the shortest sentences of the novel, drawing particular attention to itself.Apples are, of course, most famously associated with original sin in the Garden of Eden. Thus it is impossible for someone like me, whose own father is a Baptist minister, to miss the interpretation that Mr. Samsa’s apple-hurling is effectively calling Gregor’s existence a crime against God. These accusations, common in the queer experience, are also the most “sticky” and hardest to ignore. One can brush off homophobic friends and even, with more difficulty, family, but the belief that your life is an affront to God is—at least for the religious—the wound least likely to heal.In case the religious implications of the apples are missed, Kafka includes crucifixion imagery in the same scene. After being “bombarded” by apples, Gregor describes feeling “as if he was nailed in place and lay stretched out.” The word choice here is almost certainly an allusion to Jesus hanging on the cross. Furthermore, to once again cement religion as an issue, Mr. Samsa’s reaction to his son’s death is “‘Well…now we can give thanks to God.’”These references to God at such critical moments stand out like a banner within a queer interpretation. It is so easy to imagine a homophobic family thrilled by such a convenient conclusion to their social problem. For the Samsas, at least, that relief is immediate and apparent.The blight hidden in their apartment, the thing which hurt them financially and tormented their religious beliefs, is, “thank God,” finally gone. There is no period of mourning, only an immediate desire to “pass that day resting and going for a stroll.” Out in the “open air” and “warm sun” they congratulate themselves on securing alternative sources of income without Gregor and are eager to blot out any memory of his existence.Again, Kafka breaks my heart with a depiction that is all too familiar to me personally, and queer reality in a broad sense. Some form of disownment continues to be a reality for queer persons from unsupportive families. This is why, out of 1.6 million homeless youth, it is reported that a staggering 40% will identify as LGBT. Though I am independent and cannot be thrown out of doors, my family works hard to “erase” me in other ways, such as tucking away pictures, home movies and other artifacts that may remind my young nephew of my existence. If the family shows any level of support for a gay person, they fear, it could reverse his installed belief that homosexuality is a sin against God.At this moment, it is worth backtracking to discuss the issue of how we should interpret Gregor in his insect form. I’ve wrote a lot about viewing Gregor as a queer person, but how should we deal with the fictional reality of his being an insect? Should we only see his bug exterior as a metaphor for the queer experience? Or should we ever take the story at face value? That is, that he has literally transformed into a bug? Based on Kafka’s careful word choice, the answer seems to be a bit of both.Kafka includes many examples where Gregor moves his tiny limbs, creeps about the ceiling, or eats rotten food to assure us that he has, indeed, become a bug. There should be no doubting the reality of that. And yet, it is also interesting that his insect form does not overwhelm the novel. Gregor does not linger on how this metamorphosis happened. At first he thinks he’s dreaming, but after waking up there is scarcely a wonder how this came to be. If I transformed into a bug, I would do nothing but wonder how this happened and how it might be fixed. What did I eat last? What chemicals was I exposed to? Did a witch curse me?That Gregor does not question this only further illustrates that is aware he is queer and, frankly, always has been. Now the exterior only matches the interior, and the dilemma is in handling that reality.Neither does Gregor’s family go to any length to uncover the mystery of the metamorphosis. They do not ask, for example, “How did this happen?” or offer any medical assistance—despite there being a hospital right across the street, visible from Gregor’s window. Instead, their primary concerns are getting third parties out of the house so that rumor does not get around.Kafka further blends the insect issue by making it unclear precisely what bug Gregor has transformed into. Why avoid a line which plainly states “he was a cockroach!” or “he was a ladybug!” — why not make it easier for the reader to picture the protagonist as a specific type of bug? This seems fairly obvious, that Kafka wants the reader to view Gregor as an outcast more than a bug. He wants the reader to read Gregor as a brother and a son, as someone who has been alienated by his own family. There can be some doubt on whether or not Kafka intended the queer implications of his novel—more on that later—but the ambiguous language is certainly meant to make the reader view Gregor as human as possible in his bug form.Miraculously, Kafka does name a specific type of insect in relation to Gregor, but that insect is so full of innuendo that could also be used as a human insult. The maid, using a tone that “she probably considered friendly” taunts Gregor with such phrases as “‘come on then, you old dung-beetle!’” and “‘Look at the old dung-beetle there!’”For the queer reader, the interpretation of this scene is a familiar affront of homophobic slurs. Regardless of the maid's tone, she uses the equivalent of such phrases as “fudge-packer” or “poop dick” when she calls him a dung beetle. In her mind she might consider this address as an actual way to build a connection, a way of saying I know what you are, and it’s disgusting, but I’m trying to be your friend. Gregor, of course, like every gay person who’s experienced the exact same thing, does not find this hostility as an effective way to build bridges. So he reverts more, deeper still into his closet within a closet.By now I hope my argument is convincing that The Metamorphosis can be read as a parable for the queer experience. This naturally leads to the question of authorial intent.Did Kafka intend to write about the gay experience? Is this the “true” interpretation of the novel that a century of scholars have yet to identify? Maybe, probably not. In truth, it doesn’t matter. It’s certainly possible for a heterosexual to write a canonical queer novel without intending to. Furthermore, the art of masterpieces is often found in their ability to warrant many interpretations.But textual evidence is so overwhelming, so seemingly personal, that I can’t not dig into Kafka’s life. As it turns out, there are some clues which may readily validate a queer interpretation.“Kafka had homosexual fantasies, but everyone does,” writes Reiner Stach, one of Kafka's most dedicated biographers. He goes on to argue that it was Kafka’s ability to tap into these subconscious desires which make him such an enduring and brilliant writer.Max Brod, a close friend of Kafka and the recipient of his estate, described his companion as “tortured by his sexual desires” though he did not clarify if those desires were same-sex.It is true that Kafka never married, despite finding himself engaged to a number of attractive, eligible women. Yet another Kafka scholar, Saul Friedländer, concluded that the famous author led these women on for social acceptance while he secretly fantasized about men.It would have been almost cliché for a gay man in the early 1900s to be repeatedly engaged to women before breaking off the wedding last minute. This stereotype alone does not, of course, prove anything. But on the flip side, the knowledge that Kafka attended brothels, presumably for their female entertainment, likewise does not prove an exclusive interest in women. Investing in prostitutes is, in fact, a common “treatment” for homosexuality even today. The methodology seeming to be that once you try heterosexuality you will like it. Perhaps Kafka, riddled with a sense of self-loathing, went to brothels to “fix” himself so he could finally marry one of his many female companions? If you thought of yourself as a crawling, creeping cockroach, what extremes would you go to for a cure?Recent research into Kafka’s private life has found he subscribed to pornography. This detail is hardly revealing, except that The Metamorphosis possibly alludes to porn. In the memorable scene where Gregor’s family is removing all furnishings from his room, he, in a last ditch effort to preserve at least one personal artifact, crawls upon the wall and presses himself against the picture of “a woman dressed in nothing but fur.” An act which, it is worth noting the sexual phrasing here, “made his hot abdomen feel good.”One interpretation is that this portrait is merely art, a token of his prior life, however Kafka makes it clear that the removal of furnishings is symbolic of giving up hope on his condition. Mrs. Samsa goes so far as to speak this out loud: “‘…by taking the furniture away, won’t it seem like we’re showing that we’ve given up all hope of improvement and we’re abandoning him to cope for himself?’”Since this line is spoken it has the ability to influence Gregor’s thinking. The nude art is the thing he chooses to save possibly because he views it as the item most likely bring him back to normal. Again, for the gay man seeking to “change” his sexual orientation, pornographic depictions of women might be seen as medicine.Of course there are other interpretations. Indeed almost anyone who has ever felt alienated from society, misunderstood, abused, or suffered from some ailment which the rest of the world doesn’t seem to understand, can imprint themselves on Gregor’s situation. This is not a fault of the novel, but rather one of its touchstone achievements.Still, whether intended or not, Kafka’s tragic tableau tells the story of homophobia in society and within the home. As more queer readers respond to this novel and share their personal connections to it, I suspect there will be more recognition of its relevance as a queer literary landmark.
766329079	مسخ رو معمولاً به عنوان يه اثر فلسفى-اجتماعى ميشناسن، و همين كافيه كه همه ى خصوصيات داستان فراموش بشن و همه ى منتقدها به جای داستان، به مفاهيم پشت داستان توجه كنن. يعنى همه ى زحمات نويسنده براى ساختن پیکره ی داستان فراموش بشه و بر باد بره.حتماً حتماً "درباره ى مسخ" ناباكوف رو بخونيد، واقعاً ديد جديدى ميده به آدم در زمينه ى نقد ادبى.وحشتداستان بى ترديد در ژانر وحشت طبقه بندى ميشه. فضاى كابوس وار قصه هاى كافكا، محشرن. اين كه يه كابوس مسلّم رو، مياره توى زندگى هر روزه ى ما و با ديدى واقع گرايانه بهش نگاه ميكنه، كه باعث وحشتناك تر شدن قصه ميشه. از اين جهت شايد بشه گفت مبدع "رئاليسم جادويى" به نحوى كافكا بوده؛ خود گابريل گارسيا ماركز، بزرگ ترين نويسنده ى رئاليسم جادويى، ميگه "من با خوندن كافكا فهميدم ميشه جور ديگه اى هم نوشت."طنزاما مهمه كه بدونيم كافكا، خودش به داستان هاى خودش به عنوان داستان وحشت نگاه نمى كرده. بله، مسخ در نظر كافكا يه داستان "طنز" بوده. وقتى براى ديگران ميخونده يا راجع بهش صحبت مى كرده، بر جنبه هاى طنز داستانش تأكيد داشته. مثل تقلايى كه سوسك قصه، براى به موقع رسيدن به سر كار ميكنه، يا تلاشش براى توضيح علت تأخيرش به مأمور اداره ش يا... همه ى اين ها، نوعى آميختگى طنز و وحشت ايجاد ميكنه. سوژه ى اصلى وحشته، اما واکنش شخصيت ها و تناقض شديد این واکنش با انتظار ما، پهلو به طنز ميزنه. نه الزاماً طنزى كه قهقهه بزنيد، بلكه ترجيحاً طنزى كه مو رو بر بدنتون سيخ مى كنه. شايد بشه اسمش رو گذاشت "گروتسك" يا "طنز سياه".
953919305	Arabic/English ReviewFirst read I got the impression; pretty disgusted yet very sadقرائتي الأولي لها شعرت بشئ من الحزن والكثير من القرف والاشمئزازSecond read,more emotional & sympathy for Kafka Samsaالقراءة الثانية شعرت بمشاعر حزن أكثر..وتعاطف مع كافكا,أقصد سامساREAD..FEEL..RE-READهي قصة تقرأها..تشعر به..وتعيد قرائتهالذا قرأتها لمرة ثالثة وأخيرة وكم شعرت بالحزن والاكتئابتخيل أنك كنت العائل الوحيد لأسرتك، ثم أصبحت عاجزا وعبئا علي تلك الأسرةلمجرد انك صرت بحالة جعلتك...غريب الأطوارتشتاق للجلوس معهم في الجلسات الاسرية الدافئة الحميمة والتي كان يمنعك عنها دائما عملك وتجوالك لكسب لقمة العيش...والان ومع عجزك وملازمتك المنزل, يمنعك عجزك ومرضك وغرابة اطوارك من نفس الجلسات الاسرية التي افتقدها وانت لست بالمنزللأن , تخيل, ان مرضك هذا يجعلك منفرا لهم..كالمسخضع نفسك مكان كافكا ,عذرا, سامسا وانت تقرأ تلك القصة..فهو ايضا كان عمله يجعله بعيدا عن البيت كثيرا لدرجه انه في مذكراته قال ان سفريات عمله منعته من جعل تلك الرواية افضل , أقصد هنا كافكا بالفعلوكذلك تلك العلاقة المعقدة بينه وبين ابيه من العوامل المشتركة بين كافكا وسامسا بطل الرواية لتشعر انهما فعلا ..واحد كما ان هناك بعض الأجزاء التي توضح ان غرابته هذه جعلته شخصا افضل نوعا ما, فمثلا هو في النهاية بدأ يتذوق جمال الموسيقي بالرغم من انه لم يكن يجب الموسيقي كثيرا قبل ذلك كما اعترف وهو يفكر بارسال اخته الي الكونسرفتوارمما يجعلك تشعر انه نوع من انواع المرض النفسي , ربما الأكتئاب من الواقع المظلم والرغبة في مستقبل أكثر جمالا..ومن منا لم يشعر بهذا الأكتئاب وهذه الرغبة؟هذه الرغبة قد تجعلك فعلا..غريب الأطوار في مثل ذلك العالم المظلمالعمل الشاق الذي ييجرد انسانيتك ويجعلك كمجرد حشرة تسعي للرزقفحتي الأغلفة التي ظهرت للرواية والتي أشرف عليها كافكا لم يكن بها حتي صورة للحشرة, وإنما للعائلة أو لشخص يخفي وجهه عاما كل تلك المشاعر شعرت بصدق كتابتها ووجعها وألمهايجب ان تقرأ بالفعلبالنسبة للنهاية فعلا شعرت بانها غريبة,كان يمكن ان تكون افضل كما اعترف كافكا نفسه ولكنها تظل ملائمة ورمزية..ويكفي انه شعر باحاسيسه كل من قرأ الرواية..وشعر بمعاناة كافكاThird read was after all that rant in my edition which I only liked a few of it all- It didn't tell me more than I already 'felt' about the story, some articles add more deep understanding to what I've already understand..but some was OVER-Analyze..may be away of what Kafka wanted to tell...It's very sad story indeed, imagine that you become a burden on your family for unknowing, incurable sickness ,after you've been the sole support for your family....how you've been 'killing' yourself for bread winning to them..now they even can't look at you probably. I've read Kafka's letters ,and with some of his real life sad story, He is a Metamorphosis himself...I felt it's not necessary a True Bug, it may be a sickness of the long time traveling and full time working, it may be just nervous breakdown or some other psychological illness..Who knows..It's a story about Feeling for me..that's why by my second reading I've felt more like the second picture I've add at the review..And note that the original 1916 early edition's cover there's no an Actual Bug ,as well as most of the early ones. *It's a Story about feelings and differences..I won't spoil it for you But read it and try to put yourself in the position of Samsa, and that's very easy since Kafka's writing style here is very easy yet very classic well written.I felt how much he'd been longing for warm time with the family that hard work always kept him away of that...and then being sick..I felt how hard for his family to accept him..how they can't stand look at him and felt sorry for them..it's human nature after all..I felt how this "metamorphosis" progress even made him a bit better from inside, As when he learn how to taste the music -while he mention he didn't like it before- ...how it made him feel more responsible for his family, but can't do a thing now...I felt very sad for the family..and of course more sorry for him...Samsa / Kafka..And the rating is up from 3.5 to 4 just because Kafka's admitting -at the extra in this edition- that:I am now reading The Metamorphosis at jome and find it bad."from The Diaries of Franz Kafka. Oct.20, 1913 Well,first read for me I felt it can be better,although I still felt very sad..but I also hate how was the ending at all,the last 4 or 5 pages (view spoiler)[after the death,not the death itself (hide spoiler)] I get it but it really can be better..well,his admitting that at his diaries made my rating higher.Great antipathy to "Metamorphosis." Unreadable ending.Imperfect almost to the foundation. It would have turned out much better if I had not been interrupted at the time by the business trip."from The Diaries of Franz Kafka. Jan.19, 1914 Well,Rest in Peace Kafka, your work has been felt by millions of people..May God Bless your soul.Mohammed ArabeyFrom May 31 2014To June 13 2014PS : Since I've read a 200 pages edition of a 50 pages only novella, I Know how it feels to read long rant about a novel, It's Kinda boring.. So I've tried to make my review short...but couldn't :) sorry["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
1976792981	يقال ان جاذبية الفراش في الصباح تكون عشرة أضعاف الجاذبية الأرضية. فسواء كنت طالبا أو عاملا أو حتي ربة منزل فلسوف تفعل كل ما تستطيع لتأجيل لحظة مغادرة الفراش صباحا سيما و ان وجدت مفاجأة غير سارة تتمثل في كونك ترقد على ظهرك و ترفص قوائمك الكثيرة المتعلقة في الهواء و ايقنت انك تحولت إلى حشرة عملاقة لها وعيك الإنساني و لكن بمظهرها المنفر للآخرين.يقول العقاد عن الوظيفة أنها عبودية القرن العشرين و قد كان جريجور بالفعل عبدا للوظيفة رغم أنفه. اضطرته الظروف و هو المستشعر للفنون الحالم بالموسيقى أن يعمل في التجارة ليعول عائلته التي يلتصق ربها بالأريكه و تعاني عميدتها من المرض العضال بينما تحلم صغيرتها بالتحليق في أجواء السعادة و المرح. لم يجد مفر من أن يتدرع بالحمل فوق ظهره كالخنفسه ضاربا بقوائمه الأرض ليبيع الوهم للأخرين و يشتري رفاهية أسرته و لكنه في وعيه الحقيقي و عقله الباطن يكتشف أنه يبيع نفسه بالفعل فيتحول إلى هذا المسخ اللعين لتتطابق الصورة مع المعنى في تناغم نبهنا إليه العبقري كافكا قبل الثورة البلشفية بعدة سنوات و قبل اليوم بأكثر من مائة عامإذا كانت البدايات تعيسه فالنهايات بالضرورة ليست سعيدة. و في عالم غير سوي و غير عادل و لا منصف نصطدم دائما بالحقيقة عقب كل تمرد و يكون جزاء جريجور هو تنكر الجميع له شيئا فشيئا حتى تغيب لذة الحياة تمهيدا لغياب الحياة نفسها.
2091243738	Recuerdo que no entendí nada cuando lo leí por primera vez hace muchos años, cuando estaba en secundaria. Lo leí otra vez, luego de leer una biografía de Kafka y ahora lo entiendo todo. ¡Ahora puedo decir con propiedad que esto es una obra de arte! Este es un buen ejemplo de la vida de Kafka, como era la relación con su familia, especialmente la relación con su padre. Él nunca recibió ningún apoyo de su familia, sólo de su hermana, y eso se ve reflejado en este libro. Lástima que no se entiendan tanto sus libros porque creo que de alguna manera, Kafka no es tan valorado como se merece.Sencillamente genial. Ahora que lo volví a leer, lo amé.
2076024468	Surreal, inexplicable and unusual, Kafka explores the futility of human existence. Or does he? Gregor Sansa is turned into a bug and through the process he realises just how insignificant he is, how insignificant we all, ultimately, are in the greater scheme of things. He was his family’s backbone, holding them up, supporting them financially whist they took the easy path. However, when that backbone is removed the unit adapts; it carries on and finds new means of survival. The most important member of the family is swept aside, forgotten about and life continues as it always must. I guess he wasn’t that important after all. There are so many designs that can be put onto this story, so many interpretations. And this is what Kafka does so well. He leaves you with absolutely nothing, no answers or explanations, only a simple case of this happened and it ended like this. We as readers look for meaning within the narrative because that is how narrative traditionally works. There has to be a point to it all, right? But perhaps that is the point: there is no point. Perhaps by looking too hard we miss what Kafka is trying to say, or not say, with his passive writing. There are certainly elements of alienation in here, even in the recollections Gregor has before he was turned into a bug. As per the modernist mode, he was isolated from his peers and the world at large. Powerlessness is also another theme that runs through the story. Gregor’s family, and Gregor, cannot stop what is happening. They just have to go on with it and hope to make it through to the other side. A suggestion that no matter how hard we work in life, how much love or success we appear to have, we can be struck down at any moment. Forced into a situation we cannot control, we perish. Such is life. It would be easy to talk about elements of Kafka’s own biography here, and consider the work’s relevance to events that would eventually happen later in the century, but I think that would be to put too much of a design on the book. His personal feelings about life obviously helped to propel much of his writing. He wrote many strange stories, though Metamorphosis is the most renowned of his work. Utterly compelling, yet bewildering, this isn’t a story that will ever leave the reader. It’s haunting and told with realistic mundanity. “One morning, as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams, he discovered that in his bed he had been changed into a monstrous bug…”
940101748	He is fool by spending his life to them; nobody would care if he became an ugly Metamorphosis!!إنه أحمق عندما ينفق حياته على أحد؛ فلن يهتموا به أبداً عندما يصبح مسخاً !!ولأقولها صريحة، فكل علاقة ينقصها التكافؤ، ستتآكل بالتقادم حتما. سواء كانت الرابطة حب أم صداقة، فمصيرها الزوال بتلاشي احتياجهم لك ولخدماتك. الحب والارتباط هي مجرد مشاعر تعكس رغبات واحتياجات دفينة قد لا نعي بكينونتها بداخلنا.. يعطي الناس معاني مخادعة لاحتياجاتهم المخجلة!.ولتتعظ ببطل الرواية "جريجور سامسا"، الذي ظل فردا من العائلة حتى أصابه العجز وانقطع عن العمل والكسب، فأصبح بعدها مسخا كالحشرة، وأصبح وجوده مزعجا مقززا.. ربما شعرت الأخت بالمسؤولية والالتزام نحوه؛ "فالعِشرة لا تهون إلا على أولاد الحرام"، ولكن إلى متى؟ إلى متى ستجبر نفسها على خدمته، رغم تقززها ورغم "قلة حيلته"؟ صديقي، إلى متى ستقبل ببناء علاقتك بهم على أساس شفقتهم وبعض مشاعر الالتزام المؤقتة؟!.. صديقي، أنا لا أرتضي لك مثل هذه العلاقة البائسة، فلا ترتضيها أنت لنفسك. ولنتعظ جميعنا من وقائع المسخ "جريجور سامسا"..Let's declare it directly honestly; that each relationship lacks of equality, would be definitely eroded as time goes by. Whether the bound was LOVE or FRIENDSHIP, its destiny would be a demise as they don't need you anymore. LOVE and ENGAGEMENT are merely feelings that reflect hidden needs and desires we might don't aware of its existence inside us. People give their impressive needs a trickery terms.Take a lesson from novel's main character "Gregor Samsa". he was part of the family until he is poor and incapable of working and earning, therefore he became a metamorphosis like a beetle, which is annoying to be exist with them.May be his sister took responsibility and commitment to him, as they say "Intimacy doesn't be ignored except by sons of Prostitution". but how long? for how long she will force herself to serve him, despite she is disgusted of him and of his deficiency?!!.My friend, how long will you accept building your relationship with them on their sympathy and kindness, and on their temporary feel of commitment?My friend, I don't satisfy with such a poor relationship for you, so please, don't be okay with that for yourself.and let's get a moral of Chronicles of "Gregor Samsa".
4734187446	who knew that waking up as a beetle could be one of the most depressing stories ever written
2800185016	"I am constantly trying to communicate something incommunicable." — Franz KafkaTaking bedbugs to a whole new level, travelling salesman, Gregor Samsa, wakes one morning to find himself transformed into a giant beetle.Rather than waving his legs and antennae in the air, screaming, "Omigod! Omigod! I’ve turned into a frigging cockroach!" he keeps his composure and goes about his daily business with a selfless determination. His family, by way of contrast, are a selfish, unpleasant bunch and merely see Gregor as vermin. It has oft been said that angsty Kafka might well have been channelling his own real-life feelings of worthlessness (i.e. him toiling as a writer when he could serve his family better by securing a ‘proper’ job). That being so, this poignant story is ostensibly one of alienation and guilt.Many readers focus on the story’s inherent sadness, but (as is the case with Kafka’s The Trial), the author lessens his existential load with a generous dollop of dark humour.His writing is a little laboured at times, but this might have more to do with my reading of a translation, rather than his original.Overall, from its genius premise to its allegorical ending, Metamorphosis is an entertaining, pity-inducing, thought-provoking read. Despite its dark exoskeleton, this anthro-podcast has a soft abdomen and is a whole lot of fun!
1038133480	القراءة الثانية لكافكا المجنونهذا الرجل يعرف كيف يخلق حكايا سوداوية مُرعبةلا تستطيع أن تقرأها إلا وأنت فاغر فاهك وعيناك مشرعتان على اتساعهمابلا غزارة في الأحداث، ولا حتى في الشخصياتالتفاصيل، والتفاصيل فقطفي عالم كافكا تُدرك كم هي مُرعبة التفاصيلكيف كان في القصة الأولى التي قرأتها له؛ في مستوطنة العقابيشرح تفاصيل آلة التعذيب، الكبيرة والصغيرةوما تفعله في تعيس الحظ الذي سيقع تحت براثنهايصف كل ذلك بطريقة تبعث على الرعب والإشمئزاز!وها هنا في التحول، كانت التفاصيل أيضًا سيدة الموقفوبالطبع تأثير تفاصيل كافكا المصاحب لها من رعب وإشمئزاز كالعادةتفاصيل تحول إنسان إلى حشرة!!ويومياته في جسد الحشرة الجديدكيف تحولت شهيته إلى أنواع معينة من الأكل "المتعفن" وكيف كان يسلي وقته الطويل بالزحف على قوائمه الصغيرة على الأرض والجدرانوكيف كان يقوم بتنظيف جسده الجديد، جسد الحشرة!كيف كانت عائلته تتعامل معه ومشاعره تجاههمومشاعرهم تجاهه؛ ما بين الشفقةوعدم القدرة على تحمل المزيدبالنسبة ليّ، وعلى عكس الجميعأرى أن الجنون لم يكنّ في القصة والفكرة التي صاغها كافكاأن يتحول إنسان إلى حشرة لن تعدو كونها قصة رمزية يرمز بها لقضية ماأقربها هي شعور شخص ما بكونه حشرة –معنويًا- في نظر من حولهأو أنه يعيش "طفيليًا" كما نُعت كافكا من قِبل والدهلكن في رأيي، الجنون؛ كل الجنونهو فوضوية سرد القصة، فلا يُقدم أسباب للتحول لا قبله ولا بعده!هو يضع التحول بين يديك، ويتركك مع عبثية القصة وفوضويتهاورغم المحاولات العديدة المبذولة لفك طلاسم ورمزية القصةلا أجدني اتفق أو أميل مع أيًا منهافمن ناحية التفسير الأقتصادي لعائلة برجوازية تلفظ من داخلها عضو غير نافعفهذا يفسر نهاية القصة ولا يفسر بدايتها وهي سبب التحولإذ إنك تجد غريغور المسكين هو من كان يعول أسرته قبل التحول!ومن ناحية أخرى التفسير الميتافيزيقي الذي يرد القصة لفكرة الاستنساخولا أعلم على أي أساس تم تفسيرها كذلكالاستنساخ تنتقل فيه روح الإنسان إلى كائن أدني، حشرة أو حيوان أو ما شابهفي عالم آخر، بينما غريغور والحشرة في نفس العالمبل لم يحدث انتقال للروح من الأساسفغريغور هنا "يتحول" روحًا وجسدًا إلى حشرةوأعتقد أن تبني التفسير الميتافيزيقي للقصة، يقضي على أي لمحة ابداع بهايُذكرني كافكا بدستويفسكيفكلاهما يغوص في التفاصيلوكلاهما تشعر من مجرد القراءة لهما حجم الألم الذي عانوهوكلاهما سوداوي ولكن كل على طريقته الخاصة.تمّت
2321988945	No sé por qué, ni de dónde las saqué, pero tenía varias ideas preconcebidas del argumento de este libro que no tienen nada que ver con la realidad.En primer lugar no imaginaba que era un relato tan oscuro y que al menos a mí me produciría tanta tristeza; siempre pensé que tendría un tono más bien irónico a fin de burlarse de algún problema social. Lo otro es que pensaba que la metamorfosis de Gregorio era exclusivamente física, sin embargo, los cambios se siguen acentuando a través de los días y provocan una deshumanización casi completa del personaje, al punto que le es imposible comunicarse con el resto de su familia, así como recordar claramente sus sentimientos hacia ella.Otra idea preconcebida que tenía era que me iba a dar asco. En mi caso no fue así, para nada. No considero que las descripciones fueran grotescas, eran las necesarias para poder entender en qué se había convertido Gregorio. Lo que más me afectó eran sus reflexiones y la actitud de la familia, lo que te lleva a pensar si uno actuaría diferente. La metamorfosis es un clásico que casi no requiere presentación y, estoy segura, que se han hecho de él innumerables estudios metafóricos y simbólicos. No me siento calificada para realizar esos análisis, pero sí puedo decir que me gustó muchísimo, está maravillosamente escrito y me conmovió enormemente. Reto #46 PopSugar 2018: Una alegoría
848276582	"Als Gregor Samsa eines Morgens aus unruhigen Träumen erwachte, fand er sich in seinem Bett zu einem ungeheueren Ungeziefer verwandelt." - "As Gregor Samsa was waking up one morning from restless dreams, he discovered in his bed that he had been changed into a monstrous verminous bug." (my own translation)This novella starts with a shock, but ignores the "why" and "how" (I don't think anyone in the book ever asked either of those questions) in favor of exploring Gregor's and his family's reactions to the change and how it affects their relationships and their lives. Franz Kafka had a fraught relationship with his father, a butcher and a loud, overbearing, self-satisfied man who was critical of Franz. I can see Kafka's internal feeling of insufficiency giving root to this story where it is externalized into the physical appearance of a loathsome bug, alienated from all around him.Interestingly, the number three plays a repeated role: three parts to the story, three family members, three servants, three bearded lodgers... It's debatable what this means, but I tend to think Kafka was referencing the number three's popularity in folk and fairy tales (three wishes, three brothers, three billy goats Gruff, etc.) to give his story additional heft and a more timeless feel, rather than, say, it being used here a religious symbol. But Kafka, who was Jewish, did use some religious and even Christian symbols. Note the symbolic apple and the crucifixion imagery here:An apple thrown without much force glanced against Gregor's back and slid off without doing any harm. Another one however, immediately following it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; Gregor wanted to drag himself away, as if he could remove the surprising, the incredible pain by changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot and spread himself out, all his senses in confusion.My main thought after finishing this is that the family relationships being dissected here are incredibly sad, and disturbing. In an essay on The Metamorphosis, Vladimir Nabokov stated that "Gregor is a human being in an insect's disguise; his family are insects disguised as people." I've gone back and forth on whether I agree with this, but it certainly has given me a lot of food for thought: There's the originally loving sister who turns on him, the frail and helpless mother who lets him be mistreated, and the father who attacks him physically in the only two interactions they have. They betray him repeatedly, and Gregor always accepts it meekly and even makes excuses to himself for their mistreatment of him. His father stashing away Gregor's wages while Gregor was working at a horrific job to pay off the father's bankruptcy, was awful to read about, and Gregor simply rationalizes it. It's particularly chilling how in the end they all brush off (view spoiler)[Gregor's death and cheerfully move on, even blossom hatch from their cocoons, after he's gone (hide spoiler)]. I ended up reading about 30% of this in German and the rest in English, going back and forth between two side-by-side versions. Some of the German dialogue and expressions don't translate well into English. For example, Gregor's boss is called "Herr Prokurist" -- literally, Mr. Manager (which was the name used for him in one translation I looked at), but it sounds very lame in English. So I appreciated the additional level of authenticity and even insight that reading parts of this in the original German gave to me.The more I think about this and pick it apart, the more impressed I am with it. There are so many layers to this story. I started out with 3 stars based on my college memories of reading this, upped it to 4 stars when I finished it the other day, and, after spending more time analyzing it for this review, am finally winding up with 5. Reread with the Non-Crunchy Cool Classic Pantaloonless Buddy Readers group.I highly recommend taking a look at Vladimir Nabokov's lecture and notes on The Metamorphosis, here at the Kafka Project website.Initial post:I didn't care for this when I studied it in college but I'm hoping it will grow on me this time. I've found a cool website with side-by-side English and German versions of the story: http://bilinguis.com/book/metamorphos... So my intention is to try to work through this novella in German. Wish me luck! <---ETA: this was a semi-successful experiment. See above.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
6710755094	The first Kafka story I ever read was The Judgment, from my mom’s bookshelf when I was a teenager. I had no clue what was going on. I thought it was about someone with schizophrenia. Then I tried this 1 - which was easier to follow plot-wise, but I still didn’t get the deeper meaning. Honestly, I kind of rejected it. I remember thinking, “How is this even a classic?”Later in college, I hit a wall with some of my textbooks. I couldn’t understand them, got frustrated, and wanted to quit. That’s when my mom gave me some advice that stuck: if you want to go beyond just reading and actually understand a book, start with the author - who they were, what they went through, and why they wrote it. If their message hits something inside you, then it’s a good book for you, no matter what anyone else says.So when I came back to this classic as an adult this time, I got it. And it made me uncomfortable, because it’s so raw and real.First off: What even is the point of life?Gregor’s a traveling salesman who hates his job, his boss, and the grind of waking up early every day. “Getting up early makes people dumb,” he says. He doesn’t become dumb - he becomes a giant bug. He works for his family, not himself, and even though he complains, he never quits. Why? Because his job keeps his family afloat. He loves them, but maybe that love is tangled up with wanting to be needed, respected, and valued.So is life about comfort? About money? If he had a chill job, maybe he couldn’t support his family. But if life were harder and they were happier, wouldn’t that be better? Gregor’s situation feels like a metaphor for anyone stuck in a job they hate just to keep things stable. His love for his family is real, but it’s also tied to identity and status. And maybe society’s obsession with material success has made us forget to ask what life is really about.Second: People are selfish - but it’s not always malicious.Gregor’s family slowly drifts away from him after his transformation. They’re confused, unsure if he’s still “Gregor.” Their reactions say a lot.His dad still wears his uniform at home - he’s all about appearances. He’s angry and embarrassed by Gregor, even throws apples at him. His love is shallow.His mom seems the least selfish. She still loves Gregor, but she’s weak and in denial. She thinks he’ll turn back into a human, so her kindness is based on hope, not acceptance.His sister is the most complex. At first, she’s the most caring - feeding him, cleaning his room. But she’s also the first to give up on him. Her care is part duty, part pride in stepping up. When Gregor ruins her violin performance, she snaps. Her love fades, and her selfishness shows.None of them are villains. They’re just regular people reacting to something they can’t handle. And that’s what makes it so painful.Third: Does love even exist?Gregor loves his sister. He wants to pay for her music school, thinks her playing is beautiful even when it’s not. He hides under a blanket so she won’t be scared. It’s sweet and sad. But she’s the one who ultimately says, “We need to let him go.” That moment breaks him.Kafka doesn’t give me a clear answer about love. He just shows how fragile it is - how easily it can turn when things get hard. The love we think is strong might not survive the unthinkable.This novel isn’t really about Gregor turning into a bug. That’s just the setup. I think Kafka’s real focus is human nature - how people react, how they cope, how they fail each other. It’s not pretty, but it’s honest. The biggest takeaway for me is this - don’t expect too much from human nature. Don’t idealize it. That way, you won’t be crushed when reality hits.I used to think “moderation” meant staying neutral and calm. Now I see it’s more about mindset - being grounded enough to face uncomfortable truths without falling apart. With that mindset, Kafka doesn’t feel heavy. He feels real.4.6 / 5 stars
1227373917	" إذ أستيقظ غريغور سامسا ذات صباح، على إثر أحلام سادها الاضطراب،، وجد أنه قد تحول، وهو في سريره الى حشرة " يقول ماركيز حين قرأ السطر الأول في هذه الرواية " لقد سقطتُ من الفراش بعد قراءة السطر الأول ، لقد كنت مدهوشًا ..و عندما قرأت هذا السطر قلت لنفسي : بأني لا أعرف أي شخص باستطاعته كتابة أشياء كهذه " من المستحيل أن لا تشعر بالرعب والكآبة والضياع والقشعريرة وانت تقرأ هذه البداية الكئيبة والتي تظاهي أشنع كوابيسنا سوداوية وقتامةفي هذه الرواية الرمزية الكئيبة والقاسية التي تتحدث عن كافكا بصورة شخصية والتي نقلت جزءاً من حياته وما كان يعانيه من انكماش وشعور بالذنب والإضطهاد معاًهي الصورة القاتمة التي رسمها لحياته مع والديه الذين قسوا عليه في حياته وعاملوه بصورة مهينة ومزرية،، فشعر بالخذلان ورأى في نفسه حشرة تريد العائلة التخلص منه..الفكاهة السوداء هي التي ميزت أسلوب الرواية،، يقال أن كافكا كان يضحك عندما يسرد هذه القصة لزملائه!!من أروع الاعمال الادبية التي قرأتها في حياتي ومن أكثرها كآبة ورعباً وتأثيراً في النفس..
2848320234	So, this business man wakes up one morning to discover that he has somehow mysteriously morphed into a disgusting, putrid, orangey cockroach. No, this isn't Donald Trump's autobiography...Kafka's Metamorphosis played as much to my subconscious anxieties as it did to my conscious ones, like those nightmares most of us have about our teeth falling out, or our home falling apart. I came away feeling like I had just watched a David Lynch film (*see: Eraserhead). I enjoyed this and I'm not 100% sure why. Maybe I liked it because it can be exhilarating to face one's fears, like skydiving, or bungee jumping, or marriage?
1622814878	Αυτό το σιχαμερά αξιαγάπητο μαμούνι που σπάραξε την καρδιά. Ο Γκρεγκορ που ξυπνώντας -μεταφορικά και κυριολεκτικά- κάποιο πρωινό για να τηρήσει με θρησκευτική ευλάβεια την καθημερινή του ρουτίνα και τον αγώνα για επιβίωση του ίδιου και ολόκληρης της οικογένειας,μεταμορφώνεται προσπαθώντας να λυτρωθεί. Αυτή η αλληγορική μεταμόρφωση μπορεί να οδηγεί στην ελευθερία απο τα δεσμά της απόγνωσης και της ματαιότητας -κόπος-μόχθος-εργασία-μοναξιά-απόγνωση-παραλογισμός-το πιθανότερο όμως ειναι ότι οδηγεί στην σκληρή και βίαιη πραγματικότητα πως κανεις δεν ξεφεύγει απο αυτό που ενοχικά έχει καταδικαστεί. Το αξιαγάπητο μαμούνι ειναι αποκρουστικό και βδελυρό για όλους στην οικογένεια,όμως ο ίδιος παρά την αλλαγή ως προς την ανθρώπινη μορφή εσωτερικά παραμένει ίδιος προσπαθεί να κάνει όνειρα,να βρει λύση ώστε να μην δημιουργεί προβλήματα στο άμεσο περιβάλλον, ειναι διακριτικός, υπομονετικός,ενοχικός,τρυφερός,ευαίσθητος και τρομερά συμπονετικός. Κάπου εκεί πέφτουν οι μάσκες των οικείων του κυρίως γονιών και αδελφής που μετά το πρώτο σοκ σιγά σιγά αδιαφορούν αλλάζουν εξελίσσονται προς το ατομικό συμφέρον και αφήνουν το κακόμοιρο το μαμουνακι νηστικό,βρόμικο,φυλακισμένο και ολομόναχο μες την παθητική του αποχαύνωση. Τώρα δεν τον έχουν ανάγκη,τώρα ειναι ένα τέρας που τους χαλάει τη ζωή ένα άχρηστο έντομο. Το μαμουνακι -κακώς-υποτάσσεται στην αλύτρωτη πραγματικότητα και στην σκληρή αλήθεια καταλαβαίνει πως κανένας δεν θα το βοηθήσει και έχοντας μέχρι τέλους συναίσθηση πως δεν τον νοιάζεται κανεις, πεθαίνει. Η μόνη λύση ήταν ο θάνατος που ήρθε πολύ ήρεμα και γλυκά. Ήρθε γιατι έπρεπε να έρθει και ίσως να έφερε και την πολυπόθητη λύτρωση !! Καλή ανάγνωση!!Πολλούς ασπασμούς.
210311857	Esta maravilla es una historia perfecta. Los detalles que suceden en cada uno de los personajes, el hecho de que solo se conoce a Gregor Samsa siendo un bicho, un poco como si fuese un fantasma, los cambios que suceden también en la familia a partir de su transformación. Cada personaje toma vida como si se tratara de una novela larga, con largas y detalladas descripciones, y lo que hace es increíble. Alucino cada vez que la leo, y los detalles que hacen esta historia son increíbles. Ficción en su esplendor. Amo a Kafka y lo vuelvo a amar cada vez que lo leo. Increíble.
6817828912	It never fails to amaze me just how little I know about classics before I read them. Take this for example. All I knew about Metamorphosis was that a man turned into bug and Kafka was adamantly against using an image of a bug on any covers for this book (rip Kafka, you would’ve hated 99% of the covers for this book), I expected it to be good, but I didn’t expect it to emotionally devastate me. I find it quite impressive that whilst reading this novella featuring a man-turned-bug I constantly felt sick, but that feeling of disgust was never directed at the unfortunate Gregor; it was directed at the gut-wrenching reaction to him once he stopped being a “useful” member of society.tldr: This book ruined my life. “Why was only Gregor condemned to work for a company where the smallest lapse was greeted with the gravest suspicion?” A big part of this book centers around what becomes of a person when, for whatever reason, they are no longer fit to work. Gregor Samsa handles waking up only to realize he has transformed in the night exactly as any overworked person whose entire family is completely reliant on their income: he said screw it, ‘What if I went back to sleep for a while, and forgot about all this nonsense?’ Which is, unfortunately, so real. You’re overworked, overstressed, overtired, waking up before the sunrise and realise that you are now in a state that would be deemed unfit to work and may potentially lose your job, of course you’re going to sleep and hoping that things work themselves out before you wake up again, because what are you going to do if it doesn’t? The interaction with his boss at the beginning was absolutely insane, but so representative of how so many bosses view their employees—even the ones that do their jobs perfectly for years aren’t safe from the wrath that one slipup incurs. Seriously, Gregor had never called in sick for 5 years, yet they went ballistic and assumed absolute worst of him when he was a couple hours late to work (because he was a bug and didn’t know how to use his new, little legs, so how was he going to get on a train?) and immediately threatened to fire him? While EVERY SINGLE thought he has when he first realizes he is now a bug is about how he is going to get to work and do his job. That man was seriously considering taking the bus as a BUG (he just had to figure out how to stand up, your honor!) and they had the gall to start yelling at him? That story definitely belongs on r/antiwork. Throughout the entire book I find it quite fascinating that Gregor never views this metamorphosis as how it affects him internally, but fixates on how this affects his ability to keep his job and provide for his family. The focus on this highlights just how conditioned we are to be productive members of society at all costs and how dangerous it can for one’s well-being when they are viewed as just another cog in the machine, whose value is only tied to their usefulness and when they live in a society that requires overworking yourself to put food on the table. Metamorphosis has a strong foundation, set up by Samsa’s need to provide for his family and his ability to do just that taken away. Once he is deemed useless, his thoughts of how he has failed his family begin. Never once does he blame his family for how abhorrently they treat him, because he genuinely believes that he is disgusting and terrible, not because he is a bug, but because he can no longer provide money for them. And because of that, he genuinely believes that he deserves this treatment and accepts it with an unconditional love and desire only to help his family in any way he can, whatever that may mean for himself. “But what if all peace, prosperity, all contentment, were to come to a sudden and terrible end?” Gregor’s fear of losing “peace, prosperity, all contentment” is not for himself, but for his family. He works like a dog in order for them to maintain that and, once he is unable to do so, his main fear is that he will be the cause of their demise. It seems clear that his father, who took on a strict and violent method with him as soon as he transformed, has instilled in him the belief that he has to be the provider for the family and that everyone will rely on him, following in his father and many men’s footsteps in a patriarchal society. What we see of his father’s feelings towards him are extremely straightforward. His son has fallen. His son will surely never be good enough now that he is in this predicament, so he turns towards rage. There is no sympathy in the way his father views him now, and it leads me to wonder if there ever was or if he was doomed from the start. His mother is the stereotypical “if you don’t see the world/live in the world my way then there is something inherently wrong with you” type, which opens some interesting avenues for discussion on the treatment of disabled people. There is a scene where she is fighting with the sister and says, ‘Isn’t it the case as well, that by taking away his furniture, we would be showing him we were abandoning all hope of an improvement of his condition, and leaving him utterly to his own devices?’ It is almost laughable how often I have heard a variation of that sentiment in the modern day. Her adamance to keep things the same, despite the very obvious changes in her son’s physical needs, speaks to an unwillingness to give accessibility because in doing so, she would have to accept that he has changed, which is something she is not willing to do, even if it will make Gregor’s quality of life significantly better.Grete, his sister, is the most interesting and heartbreaking of the group because of how strong Gregor and Grete’s love runs. They were always by each other’s side, looking out for each other. He would have given her the world; he was trying to before he transformed. In a way, the whole family has a metamorphosis, but hers is the most clear (besides Gregor’s, of course). As time moves, the burden of this “beast” she can barely see as her brother begins to far outweigh her desire to help him and make him comfortable. My jaw was on the floor for the last few pages, and, while the entire family was heinous, she was the main reason why. “... he thought how simple everything would be if he had some help.” From the start of the book, there is a language (species?) barrier when it comes to communication, at least for his family. While Gregor can perfectly understand his family, they cannot understand him and therefore assume that he cannot understand them. This, along with the fact that his family thinks he is so disgusting that they can’t look at him and can barely stand to be in the same room as him, alienates Gregor, leaving him completely alone by the time the story is over. But, in the beginning, there were glimpses of what could have been. Multiple times, Gregor notes just how much easier his life would be if he just had some help, or thinks about how his father wouldn’t have to harm him if he just noticed that the reason Gregor wasn’t moving fast enough was because there was something blocking him. The importance of community and togetherness is highlighted well through the injuries that Gregor sustains and how his family feels about him. When he is first seriously injured, he is completely healed quite quickly because, even though his parents have already given up on him and his sister is quite distressed about the situation, his sister makes an effort to accommodate him and his new needs. He isn’t lucky with his second injury, as he is now completely alone and rejected by everyone. This time, he suffers the injury for months and the weapon stays embedded in him, with no one who cares enough, or wants enough to get it out. Even when he thinks about helping his family, he moves significantly faster than when he is feeling especially rejected. I cannot stop thinking about how different this story would have been if his family worked towards helping and accommodating him, and it breaks my heart all over again. Kafka made it clear just how valuable it was whenever his sister, though rare, showed him kindness, as it quite literally healed him. There is power in community, there is power in family, there is power in love. Humans are social beings and we are not meant to crawl through this world on our own. “Meanwhile, Gregor of course didn’t have the least intention of frightening anyone, and certainly not his sister.” The part of this that really makes me sick is just how good of a person Gregor is. Being inside his head and seeing just how everything he does is with his family in mind, even as they reject him and isolate him, is nauseating and fills me with a deep pain. The only times he gets in trouble are when he leaves his room and the only times he leaves his room are when he is trying to help his family. How does one just throw someone away, especially someone who loves and cares for them so deeply and did so much for them. How do you not even check to see if your brother, your son who you have known for years can understand you even if he cannot communicate with you? How devastating it must be to be Gregor Samsa, who has only ever put his family first, but has finally worn out his use. How devastating it must be to be thrown away in disgust. How devastating it must be to justify this mistreatment by rationalizing that he somehow deserves it, because how can he, who has loved his family so deeply and unconditionally rationalize the fact that they weren’t willing to go near him let alone try and help him through this weird and unsettling change. How different this book would have been if they were willing to look past his grotesque exterior and understand that their boy was still there. Well, now I feel sick again, and I just want to give that little vermin a hug. This book made me cry way too many times for its seventy-seven pages. It shredded my soul to pieces and left me hollowed out. I want to go on and on about how brilliant and painful and relatable it is, I want to never shut up about it. This is one of those books that makes me question how I gave so many other books five stars before it because now it doesn’t feel as special to give this one five stars. This book is seared into my soul, and I fear it’ll stay there forever. translation by Michael Hofmann
1128658	Technically I read this book in German, and if I could give it zero stars, I would. I read the first sentence (in German, mind you) around 3:30 in the morning earlier this semester, and was convinced I was loosing my mind and that I couldn't be translating it right. It read: "Gregor Samsa awoke on morning to discover that he had somehow transformed into a giant cockaroach". After typing the sentence into freetranslation.com and finding out I actually had read and translated it correctly, I thought for sure the author had lost his mind.I'm sorry, but all this stuff about him being a symbol for Jesus and struggling for mankind is a bit over-the-top I think. He's a cockaroach. There's no explaination for it, and his family is only mild freaked out at the fact that he suddenly turned into a giant bug. If the family tried to take him to the doctor, or sell him to the circus, or perhaps even give a damn at all, the story might have kept my attention for more than the first few pages.
1349774963	Real Demasiado SurrealMetamorfose é um livro super estranho!...Um homem deita-se num dia e acorda insecto no outro. Bem...obviamente que não se trata dum evento verosímil. Não é uma estória que surja nos jornais nem tão pouco nos noticiários dos media. A mim recordou-me uma velha anedota:Numa noite, um homem branco partilhou um quarto de hotel com outro de raça negra. Acontece que o primeiro tinha imperiosamente que madrugar no dia seguinte, mas... estando ele bem bebido, optou por ligar para o serviço de despertar. Sendo ele um pouco racista, por brincadeira, o seu companheiro de quarto tingiu-lhe a cara de negro enquanto dormia.No dia seguinte, logo que acordou e se confrontou com a sua imagem no espelho, exclamou :"Oooo! Mas este afinal não sou eu. É o 'preto'! Que bom! Vou voltar para a cama!"...E assim se passou um pouco com o protagonista desta estória. Ao acordar insecto, provavelmente pensou algo do tipo: "Oooo! Mas este não sou eu! É um inseto gigante! Que bom! Hoje não vou trabalhar! Vou mas é ficar no quarto!" pois, certamente, deslocar-se ao escritório não constaria na sua lista de prioridades para esse dia. 😉Quanto à família, essa reagiu com a maior frieza a este novo Gregor (é esse o nome deste estranho personagem-insecto), condenando-o a um quotidiano isolado e rejeitado!... No cômputo geral, o que temos aqui é uma alegoria onde se destacam o egoísmo e falta de sentimentos humanos, quando confrontados com uma situação que requer ajuda e compaixão. Porém, senti que o cenário escolhido não foi o ideal para a mensagem que se propõe transmitir. Foca um problema demasiado real para um cenário tão surreal, o que quanto a mim, lhe retira algum impacto.Contudo, não deixa de ser uma leitura recomendável pois explora de forma exímia certas facetas da natureza humana. E houve até quem louvasse a abordagem fantasista investida!... 😉
3040912384	¿Cómo interpretar este libro?La metamorfosis es uno de esos libros que tenemos en casa porque nos obligaron a leerlo cuando estudiábamos en secundaria, pero que después de usarlo para entregar el trabajo correspondiente fue olvidado en el rincón más oscuro de nuestro hogar. Quizás no es el caso de ustedes, pero el mío sí. Hace unas semanas cuando limpiaba mi casa, encontré este libro por casualidad e inmediatamente al mirarlo, me percaté de que nunca lo había leído a pesar de su fama mundial y de ser un clásico de la literatura. Recordé, que mis hermanos tuvieron que leerlo en el colegio, pero que a mí nunca me pidieron hacerlo, por lo que simplemente lo había ignorado y ni siquiera había mirado su sinopsis; en ese momento la leí, me llamó la atención y cuando reaccioné ya había leído este texto en menos de una hora. La historia trata de un joven comerciante llamado Gregorio Samsa, quien un día sin razón alguna despierta convertido en insecto. A partir de ahí, acompañaremos a Gregorio en su experiencia, y conoceremos las consecuencias anímicas y económicas que está transformación trae en su vida y en la de toda su familia. En este libro, no se nos explicará la razón por la que Gregorio sufrió la metamorfosis, pero si encontraremos un texto que nos hará reflexionar gracias a su historia triste y desesperanzadora. Esa reflexión, dependerá exclusivamente de la interpretación del lector, por lo que el mensaje que Kafka quería transmitir originalmente, puede ser distinto con referencia al que hallaremos en nuestra época, así como en los próximos siglos. Esta característica, es lo que hace que este libro se consideré como un clásico de la literatura.Personalmente cuando finalicé esta lectura, lo primero que sentí fue desconcierto por lo que acababa de leer. Si bien disfruté de la excelente prosa de Kafka, la simpleza de la historia me dejó algo inconforme, porque la ausencia de intrigas, de un buen final, de un mayor desarrollo e incluso de un nudo en la historia me llevó a pensar que la sinopsis no era un incentivo para leer esta obra, sino que realmente era el resumen del libro. Ante estos eventos, me interesé en investigar sobre Kafka para entender el motivo por el cual hizo este libro. Después de investigar, he llegado a la conclusión de que La Metamorfosis y otros textos del autor, existen simplemente por la necesidad de expresar la tristeza que reinaba en el corazón de Kafka. Es muy probable que él no haya pensado en hacer críticas al capitalismo o a la sociedad, sino simplemente plasmar sus sentimientos con historias desalentadoras que lo ayudarán a desahogarse de sus problemas personales. Solo era un individuo más, que se sentía atrapado en el sistema en el que vivimos desde el momento de nacer. La historia pesimista de Gregorio, representa con precisión la forma como Kafka se sentía en la realidad; y por ello, la interpretación de La Metamorfosis se ha convertido en una fuerte crítica al capitalismo y a la forma como la sociedad desestima al individuo. Usar a los trabajadores como esclavos maltratándolos mentalmente, humillándolos, tratándolos como objetos desechables, aprovechándose de sus necesidades para explotarlos e ilusionarlos con sueños que dependerán de décadas de sacrificio y tortura diaria, se representan en la vida de estos personajes, que sentirán permanentemente desagrado, ansiedad, tensión y miedo por el porvenir. Los acontecimientos de este libro, también se pueden interpretar como la historia que tiene que vivir una familia cuando tienen en su casa un enfermo terminal o en estado vegetativo, que requiere de cuidado, tiempo y dinero para poder sobrevivir. Gregorio, representaría a ese enfermo que sufre y se siente inútil, mientras su familia llena de infelicidad, adquiere muchas deudas y modifica su forma de vivir por la obligación a cuidarlo y soportarlo; aunque en el fondo, esperan que fallezca para liberarse de esas obligaciones y volver a tener paz, ya que realmente no se puede hacer nada para ayudarlo y en cambio, los está perjudicando en todos los aspectos de su vida.Otra interpretación algo más rebuscada, es pensar que aquellos que no trabajan son vistos como “bichos raros” en esta sociedad. Baso esta afirmación, por el cambio de actitud tan radical que tiene la familia de Gregorio hacia él, antes y después de trabajar. A pesar de que parecen obvias las razones para el cambio de comportamiento, aún tengo dudas de si fue por la metamorfosis o por el impedimento de Gregorio para laborar; este hecho, causó que todos en su familia tuvieran que buscar formas de ganar dinero, por lo que el disgusto de cambiar sus rutinas al tener que trabajar es muy notorio en toda la familia Samsa. A pesar de las reflexiones, de la lectura fluida y de su popularidad, he decidido calificar esta obra con 3.1 por la falta de elaboración de la trama y por no explicar las causas de la metamorfosis de Gregorio, esto último, un error grave. Sin importar que hubiera sido la picazón de un insecto, un virus o una maldición, creo que Kafka debió aclarar algo tan elemental. Omitiendo estos detalles, encontraremos un libro interesante que nos hará recordar que no todos los clásicos tienen una lectura densa y que incluso en los peores momentos de nuestra vida podemos crear grandes cosas.
4124423007	هل لنا أن نحيا حتي و لو فقدنا القيمة التي كانت تميزنا ؟ هذه حتماً من أغرب الكتب التي قرأتها و كانت حول هذا السؤال. يستيقظ "جريجور سامسا" من نومه ليذهب لعمله الرتيب حتي يستطيع سد ديون والديه ، ليتفاجأ سامسا بأنه قد تحول لحشرة .ليكون شغل "سامسا" الشاغل هو كيف له أن يتأخر كل هذا الوقت في نومه و كيف له أن يستقل القطار لعمله الآن بهذه الأطراف المتلوية و قرون الاستشعار الطويلة ! لو استيقظتَ يوماً و وجدت نفسك حشرة علي السرير علي الأقل لم تكن لتفكر بالخروج من غرفتك ليوم أو يومين :) و لكن سامسا كان يفكر في حجة غياب يقدمها لمديره حينما يعود للعمل ظهراً. عندما تراه عائلته علي هذا النحو يُغشي عليهم و تحل عليهم المصيبة ، فسامسا هو من كان يعولهم و الآن هو ليس قادرا علي إعالة نفسه. اعتقدَ سامسا أن عائلته ستنهار حتماً بعد ما حدث له ، ليكتشف أن أباه بعد ما كان غير قادر على الخروج حتي من بيته رجع للعمل و باجتهاد ، و أمه رجعت للحياكة ، و أخته عملت كنادلة ، و أكملوا حياتهم بينما يتفقدونه من حين لآخر في اشمئزاز و هو يشاهدهم خائفا مرتعشاً من تحت السرير في رضا و امتنان حيناً و في غضب و استهجان حيناً آخر . لنتحدث قليلا عن رمزية القصة : - - تحوُّل سامسا لحشرة دلالة واضحة علي عمله الوضيع الذي يتملق فيه الزبائن و رؤساء عمله فكان كالحشرة الطفيلية لا قيمة لها ، هو فقط ترس في آلة مجتمعية رديئة يمكن استبداله في أي وقت. - بعد تحوُّل سامسا كان يعتقد أن العائلة لن تقوم من بعده و لكن بالعكس قد أكملوا حياتهم بل صارت أفضل قليلا ! فكان كالحشرة لا فائدة منها ، يلقون له بعض فضلات الطعام - و التي صار سامسا يحبها الآن - من حين لآخر و يتمنون موته أو رحيله. " أتمنى لو كان في مقدوره فهمنا... لأخذته الرأفة بنا، وأدرك أن الحياة المشتركة بين الانسان والمسخ أمر مستحيل، ولذهب لحال سبيله ، وعندئذ سأفقد أخي، ولكن كنا سنبقي على ذكراه حية مكرمة." و لكن سامسا كان يفهمهم و لم يتخيل قط أن رحيله عنهم سيكون راحة لهم و لم يكتشف أبدا أنه سبب لهم كل هذا التعب ، و لم يفهم أنهم يتمنون رحيله كما يتمنون رحيل الحشرة الضارة من البيت ، بالتأكيد لن يفهم فهو قد تحول لحشرة. - تسمية الرواية ب" التحول" لأنها في اعتقاد كافكا السوداوي حالة من التطور الطبيعي بهذا العالم أن تتطور لحشرة في مجتمع يعاملك علي هذا الأساس.ستنهي النوفيلا و تتساءل كيف لكافكا أن يعرف كل هذه المعلومات عن الحشرات و تفكيرها و حركاتها و مشاعرها ربما لأنه كان يرصد لنا واقعاً من حياته المؤلمة التي عاش فيها كئيبا مُهمّشاً ، لأن سامسا هو كافكا في النهاية مع تغيير بعض الحروف. نصيحة لا تقرأ الرواية إلا بترجمة سماح الجلوي فقد كانت بسيطة و واضحة رغم أنه لم يعجبني تسميتها الرواية بالانمساخ.كانت رحلة غريبة مقلقة و لكنها حتماً ممتعة✨.
2975321800	The emotions hit me right.The characters relatable.Family issues well brought up.Everyday family struggles with such a character to handle with everyday, the shift of responsibilities, the change in the nature of human beings well displayed.The characters may be a bit detached or too overwhelming. The storyline a bit mundane and underwhelming.The best part is the solid writing style.For me, this did it. And made it an interesting read.It was a good, classic one time read ✳️It won't be a fav for everyone.Looking forward to more of his work.
6076045781	|| 1.0 star ||This might be one of the most mind-numbingly boring things I have ever had the displeasure of reading. It’s the most ridiculous nonsense imaginable. It’s about someone turning into a giant beetle, but it’s actually about absolutely nothing. I’m sure there are people willing to scream bloody murder about some supposed deeper meaning that was going on here, but lemme tell you; that’s bullcrap. It’s really just about a pathetic dude, stuck in the body of a beetle, doing absolutely nothing but sit in his room (he literally never leaves that house, not even once) and narrate his dull and insignificant life as a giant beetle to us. Oh, and we get a few scenes with his awful and ungrateful family treating him like absolute trash all because he was just so damn ugly, so that was fun too, I guess.No but seriously. Where exactly was I supposed to find the artisticity, the emotion, the raw message or the brilliant storyline here?? It’s about NOTHING. If a book has no meaning whatsoever without it needing to be explained by outside forces then it’s NOT a good story. I know that’s a controversial take and I’m sure that all the pretentious hipsters would want to kill me for saying it, but in my opinion, it should be an obvious fact for anyone not stuck up their own arse. Sorry not sorry
2857639974	زمانی در شرق دور،یک فیلسوف تائوئیست زندگی می‌کرده است.اسمش چوانگ تسی بود.یک روز بعد از ظهر به خواب کوتاهی فرو رفت.در خواب خود را به شکل پروانه‌ای دید. پروانه‌ای که از روی گُلی روی گُل دیگری می‌نشست و در دشت‌های رنگارنگ آزادانه پرواز می‌کرد،فیلسوف بعد از خواب بیدار شد.به فکر فرو رفت.محصلانش نتوانستند تحمل کنند و از او پرسیدند که چرا این‌قدر ساکت و متفکر است؟ فیلسوف گفت:«کمی پیش در خواب،پروانه بودم.از خواب بیدار شدم.اما نمی‌دانم که آیا حالا حقیقتاً بیدارم یا در خواب هستم؟ شاید هم خوابی درون خواب دیده‌ام.کمی پیش انسانی بودم که خود را پروانه پنداشته بودم.حالا هم شاید پروانه‌ای هستم که خواب می‌بیند به یک انسان تبدیل شده است.داستایوفسکی در «یادداشت‌های زیرزمینی»میگه: هرگز نتوانستم حتی حشره‌ای باشم.با صداقت خواهم گفت که به دفعات می‌خواستم حشره‌ای بشوم.ولی حتی سزاوار آن هم شناخته نشدم؛و در آخر چارلز بوکوفسکی در آویزان از نخ میگه: ‏ هی کافکاامشب در همین شب بسیار تاریکچشم دوخته به چراغ‌های بندر از پنجرههیچ‌ چیز برای فکر کردنیا انجام دادن نیستنگاهی به دستانم می‌کنم خنده‌ام میگیرد دستانم همیشه کوچک بودنداما حالابه نظر می‌رسد روز به روزبزرگ‌تر می‌شوندمرض وحشتناکی گرفته‌ام؟تنها در خانه با صدای بلند می‌خندمبه این فکر که دستانم چنان بزرگ می‌شوندکه در تابوتم جا نشوند چه فکرِجالب و وحشتناکی!این مادر *فلان دیگه چه جونوریهدستاش اندازه بدنشه!بعد فراموشش می‌کنمو دوباره از پنجرهنگاه می‌کنم به چراغ‌ها.
1721670760	Book Review 4 out of 5 stars to The Metamorphosis, written in 1915 by Franz Kafka. I think most people are familiar with the premise of this book, and rather than do a normal review, I thought maybe I'd question how on earth Kafka came up with this one? It was such a great way to tell the story and teach a lesson... a man wakes up as a giant beetle? (I secretly suspect he came across a huge cockroach in his apartment while in NYC one day). And how do you deal with such a change? Your family is afraid. They are embarrassed. You can talk. What's really going on here? What is Kafka trying to say about life? We're all insensitive? Liars? Fakes? Humorists? Nutty? So many things to read into here... it's a run book, too. When you're a bug life's quite different. Have you ever managed something like that before? No. So how did Kafka come up with all the little things to make it real? I'm glad he did as this book helps you enjoy reading when you may be forced to read some classics at a younger age that don't appeal to you. As an more mature reader, you find all the symbols and beauty in the messages with this one. I believe I read it twice, possibly some excerpts for a third instance. Each time, it gets better. I would love to see a really good film or TV Adaption... purely to witness the metaphorical views a director would incorporate on the big screen or the stage. The words are amazing, but it's what you experience by reading it that makes it such a wonderful book. About Me For those new to me or my reviews... here's the scoop: I read A LOT. I write A LOT. And now I blog A LOT. First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world. And you can find all my social media profiles to get the details on the who/what/when/where and my pictures. Leave a comment and let me know what you think. Vote in the poll and ratings. Thanks for stopping by.
1925240808	توقفت في حدود نصف ساعة بعد إنتهاء القصة ..أعجز عن كتابة أي شيء !! عن ترجمة أي مما يجول بخاطري ..شيئا ما بداخلي ليس بمكانه الصحيح! ..بماذا عبثت يا كافكا يا مجنون ؟ بماذا ؟ لنجمع شتات الأفكار .وأشلاء العواطف .ولنلملم الأحرف ..علنا نصف ربع ما بأعماقنا ..لنبدأ إذا .. بسم الله لم يمهلنا كافكا ثوان حتي صب كل ما بجعبته في أعيننا ..من السطر الأول ..رمي فكرته في مرمانا ..غريغور .. الشاب المثالي الذي حمل العائلة علي عاتقه لسنوات طويلة . تحامل علي نفسه من أجل والديه وأخته الصغري ..نسي نفسه من أجلهم ..ضحي بكل شيء تقريبا ..مسكين ! (سنتأكد من ذلك بعد قليل)التحول الحشري التحول التدريجي لغريغور من إنسان لحشرة تم نسجه بحرفية مرعبة !! إقشعر بدني في عدة لقطات . التحول الصوتي التدريجي .إستشعار الجسد الجديد..حركة الأصابع الكثيرة اللإرادية .الظهر العريض الثقيل ..الرؤية الجديدة نسبيا . الألام الجديدة .تكيف غريغور وأحاسيسه الجديدة تجاه الأرضية والأركان والظلام والطعام والجو !! إندهشت كثيرا لما أورد كافكا ! هل تحولت إلي حشرة من قبل أم ماذا ؟؟ ---------------------------------------------في الثمن الأول من الرواية .. لم يفكر غريغور بنفسه وبوضعه قدر ما كان يفكر بعائلته وعمله .. الحديث الذي دار من خلف الباب دمرني للغاية ! إنطباع العائلة وردة فعلهم كانت شديدة القسوة علي قلبي الصغير :') الإستعراض الشبه عكسي أعجبتني جدا تلك اللقطة إضافة الي السرد المزدوج ..سرد كافكا مع غريغور وغريغور وكافكا . جاء الإستعراض بشكل شبه عكسي بمعني أنه لم يشأ أن يظهر لنا في بداية الرواية إهتمامه بهم ونفقتهم وبأحوالهم إلخ . بل بدأ بالتحول البشري .ثم أعاد لنا من الماضي خط سير الحياة السابقة . ----------------------------------------------عمق القصة ..كيف إذا ضحي الإنسان بكل ما يملك من أجل من يحبهم بصدق .كيف إذا صفعته الحياة بكل قوتها .فإذا بكل تضحياته تذروها الرياح وتذهب سدا . كان عليهم أن يصيحوا به .هيا يا غريغور .إفتح ! كان عليهم أن يرفعوا عقائرهم موجهين أصواتهم تجاهه .إستمر .فإذا شعر أن جميعهم شديدي الإهتمام به وبجهوده وما ستؤؤول إليه ..ربما كان إستمر وربما عاد :) أنت وحدك في تلك الغرفة ،منبوذ .وحيد .ضعيف .دامع. لقد نسوا كلما قدمت .إنفضوا من حولِك .غضوا الطرف عنك .إحتقروك ..وحدك هنا تواسيك الظلمة ويداعبك الغبار .وحدك لا يشعر بك أحد يا غريغور :')--------------------------------------------------لم يشعر به أحد في باديء الأمر سوي أخته الصغري ..منذ سماع صوته في اللحظة الأولي بكت ..! أشفقت عليه وأطعمته وأعتنت به في باديء الأمر بشيء من التقزز والاحتياط . كانت أخته أول من نادي بطرده والتخلص منه وبكت وتشنجت !! إلي ماذا تشير يا كافكا !! هل لاحظت أنه لم يمس الحليب وأنه جائع،فتأتيه بشيء اخر يؤكل ! يكون أكثر ملائمة له ..إن لم تقم بهذا فليمت جوعا أهون بكثير .من أن يثير إنتباهها لما ينبغي أن تقوم به ___________ إختلطت أحاسيس القهر والظلم والإحتقار في تلك الغرفة .لكن غريغور تمني تمني ألا يخرجوا الأثاث من حجرته وتركوا له خزانته ومكتبه وذكرياته .. تمني لو أنه تمسك بماضيه كإنسان ..تمني لو أنهم تركوا باب الغرفة مفتوحا .تمني لو أن الغرفة لم تتحول إلي مكان للأشياء التي لا مكان لها ..تلمس في عيونهم نظرة عرفان .. تذكرة لما فعل .! أنا !! انا قتلتني نظرة التوسل في عينيه لهم ! الشفقة !! لم أرد إلا أن أسمع صوت العزف علي الكمان .إشتاقت أذني إليها .أريد أن أجذب رداء أختي للغرفة لتعزف لي وحدي ..بدون أن تشمئز منني ومن هيئتي ! أخيرا . النجوم الناقصة التي كاد يرتفع عددها. .الإنهزامية لكافكا وبطل القصة عموما .. التكيف وتقبل الأمر منذ البرهة الأولي !! تكيف مع نبرة صوته ! تكيف مع حركته وكل شيء بسهولة كبيرة . غريغور لم يسأل نفسه كيف ومتي تحولت بتلك الطريقة ..في مائة صفحة لم يفعل !! الخاتمة لم أنتظرها وردية بكل تأكيد .لكنها لم تشبع نهمي ..إذا ثلاثة لكي لا أكن ظالما :)قيل أن كافكا كان يضحك عندما قص تلك الحكاية علي أصدقاءه !! أنت مجنون :D ! تضحك بحق ! تضحك بعد أن غرست كفك تجتس أوردتي ..بعد أن سحقت بلا رفقٍ مسراتي !! تباً لك يا أيها القاتل المبتسم ..تبا .. شكرا لهناء ومحمد علي تشجيعي لقراءة تلك النوفيلا الرائعة العجيبة .ومن لم يقرأ مراجعتكما قد فاته الكثير والله .. شكرا للصديقة العزيزة شهد علي المشاركة القرائية الدافئة :) لن أسامحك يا كافكا ..لقد غطست إلي غيابة جب قلبي ووضعت شيئا لا أعرف ماهيته . ولكن برأيك ! من منهم المسخ الحقيقي !! من يستحق لقب الحشرة !! :)مع من ستتعاطف إذا وضعت نفسك مكان غريغور ..أو إذا وضعت نفسك موضع فرد من العائلة !! حقا لا أعرف .. هذا كل شيء السلام عليكم
1916077135	When I was a child,I used to get myself hide for some time and animatedly hear what’s everyone saying about my disappearance……we all are walled up by insecurities, incarcerated by uncertainties, captivated by absurdities and haunted by fears of losing the people we love so helplessly …………Kafka touches delicate strings of relations, with such audacity and ingenuousness that Metamorphosis becomes a voice on drum even after more than 100 years of its publication..Kafka’s writings largely originated from the conflicted relationship he experienced with his family, especially his father, and the glimpse of that biographical connection is vividly portrayed in form of our main character Gregor Samsa,who to his utter misfortune gets up one morning just to witness a horrendous insect of himself transformed overnight….So what do we expect him to do now?Consider himself in mid of some nightmere and sleep again?Shriek vehemently by first transformed-sight of himself?Think of suicide maybe?No,he doesn’t do such thing,and here we come to know typical kafka-hero,Gregor is little startled to see himself an enormous insect and littler worried to get back into human form.the first thought strikes his head is of being late today from job and catching train to reach office.and counting time as he keeps lying in bed for a good deal time.and this is the thinking that paves ground for Marxist approach of the novella.Gregor is the representative of proletariat class trying so bad to catch up with bourgoais, considering job“travelling day in and travelling day out..” and bosses “pain in ass”…..a little box is not enough to touch other approaches like symbolism, structuralism and a semblance of feminism in story.The most horrific factor though is of alienation,Gregor in his own home is confined to hide and is treated strictly like the one he looks………an insect a bigger one!Gregor becomes noticeably less human and more accepting of his transformative state. With each act, Gregor also becomes physically weaker. As his family abandons its denial of his insectlike appearance and their hope for his full recovery to a normal human condition, they gradually become indifferent to his fate and recognize their need to pursue their lives without him. His father returns to work, his mother learns to operate the house without the help of a maid, even adding the burden of taking in boarders, and his sister assumes the responsibilities of adulthood. Where once he was the center of their lives, he now becomes an unnecessary burden and an embarrassment.And this is when he abandons hope……….Gregor dies of disappointment!
2648001008	KafkianoAdjectivo1 - relativo ao escritor checo de língua alemã Franz Kafka (1883-1924) ou à sua obra2 - figurado: labiríntico; complicado3 – figurado: absurdoIn Dicionário Porto EditoraNo nosso país usa-se muito a expressão processo Kafkiano – réus há que se defendem recorrendo a Kafka alegando não saberem o motivo da acusação.Kafkiano é um adjetivo frequentemente utilizado quando nos deparamos com situações absurdas; termo de uso corrente, até mesmo (provavelmente na maioria das vezes) por pessoas que nunca abriram um livro de Kafka. Como escreveu Ítalo Calvino: «Lendo Kafka, não posso deixar de comprovar ou de rechaçar a legitimidade do adjetivo kafkiano, que costumamos ouvir a cada quinze minutos, aplicado dentro e fora de contexto.»Penso que só acontece com autores que, pelas suas características originais e inovadoras, deixaram um enorme legado e influenciaram os escritores posteriores.«A Metamorfose» surpreende logo pelo absurdo da primeira frase:«Uma manhã, ao despertar de sonhos inquietantes, Gregor Samsa deu por si na cama transformado num gigantesco insecto.»E na antepenúltima página outra frase absurda;«- Bem – replicou a mulher a dias, rindo de tal maneira que não conseguiu prosseguir imediatamente -, era só isto: não é preciso preocuparem-se com a maneira de se verem livres daquilo aqui no quarto ao lado. Eu já tratei de tudo.»E entre estas duas frases, do que se fala?Fala-se na solidão de um homem no seio da sua distante e silenciosa família, obrigado a formar uma ilha dentro doutra ilha, do desespero do homem perante o absurdo do mundo, do julgamento do ser humano e do sofrimento profundo daqueles que, como Gregor, encontram todos os caminhos vedados.A obra de Kafka gira obsessivamente à volta de uma desesperança que atira as suas personagens para a metamorfose - neste caso, no corpo de um animal - a fim de que assim se torne mais claro o significado de um bloqueio total e impiedoso.Também eu sinto esse bloqueio quando luto contra a burocracia e falta de humanidade do nosso país.
2551668683	The way how the wide spectrum of human behavior, nature, emotions and reactions is illustrated in this book does a huge favor to every single word written in it. The truth of every relationship, the vanity of human nature, the highs and lows of human emotions, the actions one takes in certain circumstances and the reactions one gives intentionally or unintentionally have been very beautifully portrayed in this book. This book has a lot to teach if one is a keen reader. Must read for people who enjoy reading about human psychology.
1525155512	كافكا - المتحول : شخصية شاب يجد نفسه ذات يوم وقد تحول إلى حشرة.. حشرة ضارة أثر تلك الضغوط الذي يتعرض لها في حياته المنزلية والعملية والأهم هو أن من تعمل لديهم لايعنيهم من أمرك شيء بل أنت مجرد بقرة حلوب بالنسبة لديهم بتعبير الأوربيين … لا أحد مثل هذا المجنون كافكا في سوداويته الكئيبة. تكرهه في العمل الذي أنهيته ثم تبحث له عن عمل آخر لم تقرأه بعد. في هذا العمل العبثي يعالج كافكا الإغتراب وهو مغاير تمامًا للغربة.. إغتراب غريغور سامسا يتمثل في وسط أسرته وفي بيئة عمل وكلاهما أماكن نتواجد فيها بكثرة لكن إغترابه جاء في فورة عصر الرأسمالية لهذا مدرسته العبثيتة كانت معالجة موفقة وفقًا لفكرة الإغتراب مثلما نجح (البير كامو) في رواية (الغريب) بنفس المعالجة بتتبع المدرسة العبثية.يقدم كافكا في (نوفيلا : التحول) التي سوف تجدها في بعض الترجمات العربية التحول / الـممسوخ / الدودة، وغيرها، وجميعها قريبة من عنوان الرواية الأصل وإن كنت أجد التحول دلالته المعنوية وقعًا على النص أقرب لكن الترجمة من الألمانية للعربية لا تعني كلمة التحول بمعنى الإنتقال فهو أي كافكا قد قصد كينونة التحول الجديد وجعل الحالة عنوان العمل : Die Verwandlungبينما إبراهيم وطفي عند ترجمته للعمل جعلها (الانمساخ) وتحدث في ترجمته للنوفيلا في كتابه الواقع في (138) مع تفسيرات وتأويلات تحتل حيز (70) صفحة من الكتاب، ويجد أن ترجمته الأنسب وهي ليست حرفية بقدر ماهي ذات معنى وهذا عكس ترجمة منير بعلبكي (المسخ)و وعكس ترجمة دار الجمل الذي حمل نفس الشيء (المسخ). ما يهم من كل هذا أن ترجمة وطفي بها تفسيرات خطيرة محاولة لفهم النص وهذا شيء ملفت في ترجمة الرواية لكن قراءة الرواية بمقارنة الترجمات ليس هو ما أدعو له لأجل الوقت فقط.
1819028779	First work of Kafka that I encountered...what struck me was how easy it was to get sucked into his logic and reasoning. We have all felt like Gregor Samsa at some point, as if we no longer belong to the human race. But Kafka reveals the even more horrific concept of NEVER having belonged to the family we were born into...after that rejection what is left?
4032288680	“إننا نحتاج إلى تلك الكتب التي تنزل علينا كالصاعقة التي تؤلمنا، كموت من نحبه أكثر مما نحب أنفسنا، التي تجعلنا نشعر وكأننا قد طردنا إلى الغابات بعيدًا عن الناس " هكذا كان هذا الكتاب صاعقة اتت لتؤلمني فقط هكذا تكون المواجهة مع الحقيقة المؤلمة يستقيظ جريجور سامسا في يوم من الأيام بعد أحلامه المضطربة ليجد نفسه قد تحول لحشرة ضخمة فليس فقط الشكل غريب ولكن اسلوب الحياة بالكامل تغير حتى اللغة نفسها تغيرت تحول جريجور من شاب نشيط يعمل مندوب مبيعات مجتهد يقضي أيامه كلها في السفر ليكون بذلك العائل الوحيد والأهم لأسرته بالكامل من اب وام واخت صغرىولكن يتحول فجأه ليجد بعد ان كان الكل يحترمه ويقدر مجهوده يتهمونه بالخذلان والاستهتار لتنفيه اسرته في غرفته ولتفصله الشركة عن العمل بعد كل هذا الإجتهاد من أجل الجميع ماعدا نفسهليجد نفسه منفي من الحياة عندما احتاج لها فجأهمن احبوه كرهوه ومن قدروه اهملوه .. منتهى مراحل الألم ان يجتهد الانسان من اجل مستقبل غيره ليجد عند اقل تغيير حتى ولو كان في ظاهره كبير يبتعد عنه اولا وقبل اي احد من كان يضحى لأجلهمرواية مؤلمة لأبعد درجات الألم حقا مليئة بالظلام والوحدة والألم النفسي الشديد مليئة بالمواجهات والدموع والخوف والتردد يسلبون منه آدميته لمجرد تحول شكله وعدم رغبه في التعامل معه لمجرد مواجهته لفاجعه لم يكن يتوقعها احد أخت يضحي لأجلها فيكون مصيره منها رد فعل قمئ "خلينا نرتاح من قرفه" أم تتردد بين حبها لإبنها وبين اشمئزازها لتفقد وعيها في كل مرة تراه وأب لا يبالي من البداية بوجوده او عدمه بمجهوده او كسله مجرد اب يعتمد على ابنه كلية وفقط ليكون جزاء الراحة التي عاش بها بسبب ابنه هي تلك المعاملة والرفض التام ليس فقط لشكله بل لوجوده بشكل كلينهاية مؤلمة ولكن مناسبة جدااااا أولى تجاربي مع كافكا على الإطلاق ولن تكون الأخيرة اكيد .. أحببتها وشعرت بها في قلبي لأشعر بفقد صديق بعد انتهائها على الرغم من انها لم تدم يوم حتى ولكن استولت على كل تفكيري تماما
4323409652	5 horror-struck stars! 🌟Existential parable, anyone?Fancy waking up one fine day to find yourself in quite the expressionistic state: "transformed in bed into a horrible vermin"! Nonsense, huh? That's what Gregor Samsa thought, too.As overly committed and devoted as Gregor is to his salesman job, the sense of perennial insufficiency prevails. He is portrayed as being "condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly suspicious at the slightest shortcoming". Indeed, the chief clerk absurdly shows up and bluntly showers the family with accusations about the nature of Gregor's professional failings, merely on the grounds that he had not presented himself at work that morning. The situation itself, and the build-up of tension, come across as utterly surreal. Of course, what they tend towards thematically is the over-arching and intensely annihilating forces at play; quintessentially impersonal and traceable to an incontestable authority, though allusively also of personal origin. Gregor's uncanny predicament, recurrently referred to as "his present state", well, it complicates matters exceedingly; for Gregor and his family, who had gratefully though perhaps in a mode of detached consciousness relied on his income for a long time. A family, therefore, that through a peculiar warping of tightly intertwined happenings, appears to have got infested with the most contradictory impulses of human nature: a sense of prevailing estrangement and underlying resentfulness; bitterness alternated by sporadic bursts of guilt, affection or emotion; a survival instinct that turns family into enemy. In Kafka's short story, the sense of alienation, deep-rooted anxiety, and horror, are made to inhabit the same space of the preposterous and counter-rational; in some visually compelling ways, it is reminiscent of Polanski's farcical Carnage. In his "current sad and revolting form", Gregor is reluctantly debarred from the very possibility of human affection and relationability. Communication channels are entirely and excruciatingly severed, though he is not spared the double torture: for he is still able to wholly understand and interpret the world he is so harshly, it seems, excluded from. Emblematic is the family's silent decision to leave his bedroom door open, implying a tentatively shared understanding that Gregor must nevertheless keep to his own room. A recurrent theme in Kafka, masterfully developed in his short parable Before the Law: a tantalising openness exceptionally undermined by eternal expulsion.Thus Kafka's protagonist is consigned to an unjustly liminal existence, to which he paradoxically succumbs with passive acceptance. And yet, how is this excessively tormenting circumstance not unjustly imposed on the family? Gregor's entrapment is chillingly mirrored by his family's own sense of inexorability: one need only momentarily reflect on the sheer episodic recurrence of shock, dread and the full range of excess emotions exhibited in particular by the mother and the sister, whose suffering feels palpably perpetuated to levels that border on the inhuman. Interestingly, the confrontation with the father is of a fairly different nature altogether: the latter's transformation appears to be as inordinate as Gregor's at the beginning of the story, which raises the question of a certain transference of conditions, culminating in that moment that sees the father attempting to bombard the beetle-son with apples, much like the charwoman is seen to both laughingly yet horrifyingly shove the old dung-beetle's body with the broom. As Kafka hones in on the inexplicable and a transcendental search for meaning, he also extensively remarks on the separateness and alienation of human existence, epitomised in the image of the mother and father leaving the bed "each from his own side". Loss, abyss, and existential crisis feature in every utterance, hinting at concepts that defy discovery and sharply stress the despondency that lies within and ahead.In equal measure distressing and puzzling, delightful and enchanting. Lovers of the eccentric, the obscure, and the whimsy are likely to derive enjoyment from this classic tale!
5853056083	solo me quise hacer la intelectual
213736959	"Gregor Samsa woke up one morning to find himself transformed into a giant insect."Gabriel Garcia Marquez says that it was this sentence (one of the most powerful opening sentences in world literature) which convinced him that he could also write and started him on his literary career. Until then, he had thought people were not allowed to write such outrageous things in stories!"Metamorphosis" talks about alienation in a direct way which packs a tremendous punch. There is no beating about the bush, no explanation of how such a fantastic event can occur, no hint that the story is metaphorical. Gregor Samsa, a man until the day before, has suddenly become an insect - now he, his family, and society must deal with it.This is what makes Kafka intensely readable. If you are willing to suspend disbelief and allow the writer to lead the way, you can plunge right into his novels. While most of his subjects are weird and depressing, his writing is strangely compelling; it is a nightmare from which you do not want to wake up.
2379701723	Q:One morning, as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams, he discovered that in bed he had been changed into a monstrous verminous bug. (c) I can't help thinking of Dave Cronenberg's 'The Fly', which gave me nightmares once. 'The Metamorphosis' is a close contender.I admit the idea to put it all like this is fantastic! But, Lord! I am conflicted about this one, since I'm simultaneously hating this book with passion and feeling its cathartic potential. Q:‘... Gregor has broken loose.’ (c) And it goes really downhill from there.I'm loving to hate Kafka.Q:So for diversion he acquired the habit of crawling back and forth across the walls and ceiling. He was especially fond of hanging from the ceiling. (c)I do get the whole claptrap of crap ideas happening to be expressed in here but their delivery is plenty horrible. The allegories of clinical depression, debt, self-loathing, acceptance and mutual caring and betrayal and life and professional deformation and social/familial ties and their fragility, at best, and all the other wonder-crap we get introduced in here... Frankly, I read it ages ago and loathed it. I reread it, because, duh, I've grown up and maybe I'm more prepared for this one... DUH! I'm hating it even more. I feel as if this book's contagious with depression, since, well, almost any kind of debilitating illness could have been portrayed in here, instead if the bug-ness. I feel sorry for the poor bugger and I don't want all this imagery in my head. Still... it's horrible enough to be incredible!Rating: I start at +5 stars.The author's genius gets to add +1000 stars. My inner nightmare architect gets to subtract -1000 stars.Result: 5 stars. The book is wonderful and clever and grotesque and allegoristic and cool and I'm too squeamish for my own good. It definitely could be cathartic for someone. Or not. So, it's me, it's not the book. 5 stars it is.Q:‘This getting up early,’ he thought, ‘makes a man quite idiotic. A man must have his sleep. (c)Q:I cannot make you understand. I cannot make anyone understand what is happening inside me. I cannot even explain it to myself. (c)Q:Gregor was still here and wasn’t thinking at all about abandoning his family. At the moment he was lying right there on the carpet... (c)Q:But it was the very uncertainty which distressed the others and excused their behaviour. (c)Q:It seemed to Gregor that it might be far more reasonable to leave him in peace at the moment, instead of disturbing him with crying and conversation. (c)Q:I am amazed. I am amazed. I thought I knew you as a calm, reasonable person, and now you appear suddenly to want to start parading around in weird moods. (c)Q:... Mr. Manager? To the office? Really? Will you report everything truthfully? A person can be incapable of work momentarily, but that is precisely the best time to remember the earlier achievements and to consider that later, after the obstacles have been shoved aside, the person will work all the more keenly and intensely. (c) This could have been the very best ever allegory of the modern office.Q:... the manager had already turned away, and now he looked back at Gregor over his twitching shoulders with pursed lips. During Gregor’s speech he was not still for a moment, but was moving away towards the door, without taking his eyes off Gregor, but really gradually, as if there was a secret ban on leaving the room. He was already in the hall, and after the sudden movement with which he finally pulled his foot out of the living room, one could have believed that he had just burned the sole of his foot. In the hall, however, he stretched out his right hand away from his body towards the staircase, as if some truly supernatural relief was waiting for him there. (c) Lovely scene. Q:His parents did not understand all this very well. Over the long years, they had developed the conviction that Gregor was set up for life in his firm and, in addition, they had so much to do nowadays with their present troubles that all foresight was foreign to them. (c) Q:... he felt a great pride that he had been able to provide such a life in a beautiful apartment like this for his parents and his sister. (c)Q:Thus, he had a long time to think undisturbed about how he should reorganize his life from scratch. But the high, open room, in which he was compelled to lie flat on the floor, made him anxious, without his being able to figure out the reason, for he had lived in the room for five years. With a half unconscious turn and not without a slight shame he scurried under the couch, where, in spite of the fact that his back was a little cramped and he could no longer lift up his head, he felt very comfortable and was sorry only that his body was too wide to fit completely under it. (c)Q:But his sister noticed right away with astonishment that the bowl was still full, with only a little milk spilled around it. She picked it up immediately (although not with her bare hands but with a rag), and took it out of the room. (c)Q:She brought him, to test his taste, an entire selection, all spread out on an old newspaper. There were old half-rotten vegetables, bones from the evening meal, covered with a white sauce which had almost solidified, some raisins and almonds, cheese, which Gregor had declared inedible two days earlier, a slice of dry bread, a slice of salted bread smeared with butter. (c) Lovely, a bunch of inedible stuff for the Bug.Q:Certainly they would not have wanted Gregor to starve to death, but perhaps they could not have endured finding out what he ate other than by hearsay. (c)Q:Already during the first day his father laid out all the financial circumstances and prospects to his mother and to his sister as well. ...He had thought that nothing at all was left over for his father from that business; at least his father had told him nothing to the contradict that view, and Gregor in any case hadn’t asked him about it. At the time Gregor’s only concern had been to devote everything he had in order to allow his family to forget as quickly as possible the business misfortune which had brought them all into a state of complete hopelessness. And so at that point he’d started to work with a special intensity and from an assistant had become, almost overnight, a traveling salesman, who naturally had entirely different possibilities for earning money and whose successes at work at once were converted into the form of cash commissions, which could be set out on the table at home in front of his astonished and delighted family. Those had been beautiful days, and they had never come back afterwards, at least not with the same splendour, in spite of the fact that Gregor later earned so much money that he was in a position to bear the expenses of the entire family, expenses which he, in fact, did bear. They had become quite accustomed to it, both the family and Gregor as well. They took the money with thanks, and he happily surrendered it, but the special warmth was no longer present. (c)Q:This feeling sought release at every opportunity, and with it Grete now felt tempted to want to make Gregor’s situation even more terrifying, so that then she would be able to do even more for him than now. For surely no one except Grete would ever trust themselves to enter a room in which Gregor ruled the empty walls all by himself. (c)Q:Grete’s purpose was clear to Gregor: she wanted to bring his mother to a safe place and then chase him down from the wall. Well, let her just attempt that! (c)Q:They were cleaning out his room, taking away from him everything he cherished; they had already dragged out the chest of drawers in which the fret saw and other tools were kept, and they were now loosening the writing desk which was fixed tight to the floor, the desk on which he, as a business student, a school student, indeed even as an elementary school student, had written out his assignments. (c)Q:Was that the same man who had lain exhausted and buried in bed in earlier days when Gregor was setting out on a business trip, who had received him on the evenings of his return in a sleeping gown and arm chair, totally incapable of standing up, who had only lifted his arm as a sign of happiness... But now he was standing up really straight, dressed in a tight fitting blue uniform with gold buttons, like the ones servants wear in a banking company. Above the high stiff collar of his jacket his firm double chin stuck out prominently, beneath his bushy eyebrows the glance of his black eyes was freshly penetrating and alert, his otherwise disheveled white hair was combed down into a carefully exact shining part. (c)Q:Gregor’s serious wound, from which he suffered for over a month (since no one ventured to remove the apple, it remained in his flesh as a visible reminder), seemed by itself to have reminded the father that, in spite of his present unhappy and hateful appearance, Gregor was a member of the family, something one should not treat as an enemy, and that it was, on the contrary, a requirement of family duty to suppress one’s aversion and to endure—nothing else, just endure. (c)Q:Was he an animal that music so seized him? For him it was as if the way to the unknown nourishment he craved was revealing itself to him. (c)Q:It must be gotten rid of,’ cried the sister ...how can it be Gregor? If it were Gregor, he would have long ago realized that a communal life among human beings is not possible with such an animal and would have gone away voluntarily. Then we would not have a brother, but we could go on living and honour his memory. But this animal plagues us. (c)Q:The fright had only lasted for a moment. Now they looked at him in silence and sorrow. (c)Q:He remembered his family with deep feeling and love. In this business, his own thought that he had to disappear was, if possible, even more decisive than his sister’s. (c)Q:‘...about how that rubbish from the next room should be thrown out...(c) Yep, they did put a lot of rubbish in there, too. Still, they probably are including Gregor into this designation as well. How do you go from being the backbone of a family to rubbish? In a hurry.
2536663239	تعدد تأويلات هذه الرواية الرائعة. وبالطبع هناك من يجد أن معنى القصة يتعدى فكرة "إنكار الجميل" بكثير. وربما عندما أعيد قراءتها لمراتٍ عديدة وهذا ما انتوي فعله، ربما قد اجد تفسيرا جديدا في كل مرة.قصة عظيمة تستحق مكانتها العظيمة بجدارة.
3651598780	في صباح يوماً ما، وجد غريغور سامسا نفسه قد تحول إلى حشرة! فكان كُل ما يشغل باله بعدها: كيف سأذهب إلى عملي؟الجميل في هذه الرواية أنه هناك العديد من التأويلات التي ستجدها، ستختلف آراءنا وتفكيرنا ولكنك لن تختلف على أن "فرانز كافكا" تعذب وعانى في حياته بشكل بشع ليكتب رواية بها هذا الكم من الألم والعذاب النفسي.طوال أحداث الرواية وجدت نفسي أحاول أن أفسر لماذا تحول؟ هل هناك رمزية؟ هل مثلاً رمزية أنه مُجرد ما نُظهر للأقربين منا وجهنا الحقيقي فيذعروا منه، هل مثلاً الرمزية في أن العمل يحولك إلى حشرة لا فائدة منها؟ هل مثلاً أن العائلة التي طالما اهتم بها "غريغور" في أقرب وعكة صحية تركوه وعانوا منه بل وضربوه وتمنوا موته؟ عن الطريقة التي ينظر بها العالم إلينا؟ وأننا مجرد حشرة في نظره؟العديد من الأفكار عصفت بذهني.. وروحي أصبحت قلقة، رباه.. يكفي ألم.. ليعود إلى شكله البشري الأول أو فليمت رحمة له.وأما بعد النهاية فقد تيقنت أن الرمزية لها علاقة بالأسرة، فهم بعد كل شيء قرروا الاستمرار.. وكأنها رسالة ضمنية من كافكا يُخبرك أن الحياة تستمر حتى بدونك، لن تتوقف ولن يتوقف أقرب الناس إليك من مُمارسة حياتهم.بعدما قرأت الكلمة في آخر الكتاب عن كافكا وأنه أوصى صديقه المُقرب بأن يُتلف مؤلفاته، علمت وتيقنت أن تلك المؤلفات هي جزء من روح كافكا، جزء من كيانه، وحياته المليئة بالسواد، رُبما كان أبواه من يكرهاه، رُبما حبيبة، رُبما صديق.. ولكن دعنا نتفق أن كافكا كانت حياته كالجحيم.
2478360115	Un libro corto y oscuro. Muy interesante pero deprimente también ¿si te conviertes en algo “horrible” físicamente dejas de ser parte de la familia a la que tanto tiempo cuidaste? Tiene muchas interpretaciones este cuento, hay muchas teorías y estudios en base a el pero yo me quedo con lo volátil y desagradecido que puede llegar a ser el ser humano.
5297235284	اونجا، اونجایی که آدم میتونه فرار کنه، میتونه خودش رو آزاد کنه، گرمای تن آدم های دیگه رو حس کنه، توی موج ها غلت بزنه، اونجا، اونجایی که دریا تنگ بغلش کرده، اونجا دیگه آدم احتیاجی نداره دست به دامن بالا بشه. ولی اینجا، اینجا که هر جا چشم بگردونی نگاهت به دیوارها میرسه، اینجا رو اصلا برای این خلق کردن که همیشه سرت رو به آسمون بگیری و دنبال نگاه رحمت باشی.سوءتفاهم از آلبر کامو من بدون هیچ تصوری، خوندن یکی از آثار کافکا رو تو برنامه‌م گنجونده بودم و تنها اثری که ازش داشتم محاکمه بود. تا اینکه سهیل، مسخ رو بهم معرفی کرد و چقدر ازش ممنونم که باعث شد به دنیای تاریک اما در عین حال ملموس کافکا، پرت شم🤍اینطور شد که با گرگور آشنا شدم. سوسکی که میتونست من باشم و یا هر کس دیگه روی این سیاره ی نفرین شده. میدونی.. ظاهر دایره ای شکل این کره ی خاکی آدم رو فریب میده. درست مثل ساعت و تو پی نمیبری چقدر از عمرت گذشته. به این خیال زندگی رو میگذرونی که هنوز هم برای اون لحظه ی بزرگ رهایی وقت داری. همون زمانی که با خیال راحت میتونی از تکرار مکررات فاصله بگیری و قدری برای خودت وقت بذاری. برای چیزهایی که به واسطه ی این زندگی سگی ازشون به دور بودی. کافکا با دنیای فانتزی عجیبی که خلق کرد بهم تلنگر بزرگی زد. که اگه منتظر بمونم فرقی با یه سوسک چندش رقت انگیز ندارم! همون حشره ای که تا خرخره غرق کثافت هست. بوی گوه میده و حالیش هم نیست که تو آشغالدونی زندگی میکنه. هر چی اضافه بیاد میخوره و هر چقدر هم سرتاپاش رو قهوه ای کنن، بدون اینکه حتی متوجه بشه با بی خیالی طی میکنه. از جاهایی سر درمیاره که عقت میگیره. و در نهایت با یه دمپایی خلاص میشه.(البته من از سوسکی که تو زندگی به چشمت میخوره میگم و منظورم گرگور گوگولی نیست!)آشنا نیست؟ فقط چون شخصیت اصلی تبدیل به سوسک شده برات حال به هم زن هست؟ اصلا به این فکر کردی اگه از بالا به خودت نگاه کنی، شاید همون گرگور بینوایی باشی که مدت هاست از خواب بیدار شده و دیده که سوسک هست، اما زیر چشمی به ساعت نگاه کرده و گفته اگه دیر برسم ممکنه اخراجم کنن؟! برای همین بدون توجه به وضعیت عجیبش سعی میکنه دوباره و دوباره تو جریان زندگی تخمیش غوطه ور شه. و آیا این خنده دار نیست؟ اینکه بفهمی دنیا سوسکت کرده اما باز هم میخوای به روتین زندگیت ادامه بدی. آدمی چقدر میتونه پررو باشه =)البته باید بگم سوسکی که کافکا ترسیمش کرده خیلی قشنگه! طوری که به نظرم نابوکوف به خوبی تونست درکش کنه :"باید دقت کنید که این هیولای کوچک و بینوای ما چقدر مهربان است، چقدر خوب است. سوسک شدن او، هر چند بدنش را از شکل انداخته و خوار کرده، ظاهرا همه‌ی وجوه نازنین انسانی او را بیرون کشیده است. ازخودگذشتگی مطلق او، دلنگرانی مداوم برای نیازهای دیگران در تقابل با وضعیت کریهش بسیار برجسته می‌شوند. هنر کافکا از سویی در این است که ویژگی های حشره ای گرگور، تمام جزئیات غم‌انگیز پوشش حشره ای او را گرد می‌آورد، و از سوی دیگر سرشت انسانی نازنین و ظریف گرگور را روشن و زنده جلو چشم خواننده می‌گذارد."تو همون چند صفحه‌ی اول داستان میشه به چند چیز پی برد. چیزهایی که باعث شدن گرگور مسخ شه._شغل طاقت فرسا_خوردن وعده های غذایی مزخرف وقت و بی وقت_نبود رابطه_عدم خواب کافی_به دوش کشیدن گندکاری های پدر و ایفا کردن نقش کیسه پول برای کل خانواده_فرصت نداشتن حتی برای ناخوش بودنو این لیست ادامه دارد!..با این اوصاف گرگور زامزا، این انسان نازنین که داره نون قلبش رو میخوره، به مرور زمان محبتش تبدیل به وظیفه میشه و در عین حال یه پکیج کامل از نکبت‌بار زندگی کردن هست، یه روز بیدار میشه و میبینه ای دل غافل! بالاخره زندگی زهر خودش رو ریخت و باعث شد سوسک بشم!!و خب داستان اینطوری شروع میشه: فانتزی، ترسناک، تاریک و با رگه هایی از طنز.حالا چه خاکی تو سرش بریزه؟ اطرافیان چطور میخوان با پیکر سوسک مانندش مواجه شن؟ شغلی که می‌تونست خرجی کل خانواده‌ی مفت خورش رو بده، چی میشه؟ از این کابوس لعنتی میتونه بیدار بشه؟ امیدی به بازگشتش اصلا هست؟ و سوالات دیگه ای که همون اول کاری ممکن هست به ذهنت خطور کنه و به تدریج کافکا بهت جواب میده. نابوکوفی که به بوکسور ادبیات معروف هست در وصف مسخ میگه: "اگر کسی مسخ کافکا را چیزی بیش از یک فانتزی حشره‌ای بداند، به او تبریک می‌گویم، چون به صف خوانندگان خوب و بزرگ پیوسته است."و همین منتقد بزرگ، موشکافانه مسخ رو زیر ذره‌بین قرار داده. نکته های جالبی رو شخم زده که از دید خیلی‌ها پنهون مونده. شاید به همین خاطر هست که باور دارم چقدر این بشر کارش درست بوده و ای کاش می تونستم شاگرد چنین استاد بی‌بدیلی باشم.باور کن اغراق نمیکنم. تو کدوم استادی رو دیدی که نقشه‌ی آپارتمان خانواده‌ی زامزا رو رسم کنه و از دانشجوهاش بخواد که تو دفتر یادداشتشون بکشن؟ چند نفر سر راهت قرار گرفتن که موقع تدریس به این فکر باشن که عشق به ادبیات رو به دل شاگردهاشون بندازن؟به ندرت پیش میاد. معمولا ترس از نمره و پاس نکردن درس های به‌دردنخور رو به دلت میندازن.خلاصه که حرف‌های زیادی میشه راجع بهش زد اما برای افشا نکردن کل داستان به همین طومار بسنده میکنم.به کسایی که مسخ رو خوندن و نقد نابوکوف رو نخوندن، به شدت پیشنهاد میکنم بخوننش. تا متوجه بشن فرق هست بین ریویوهای گاها چرت و پرتی که دم از تفکر نقادانه میزنن و نقد درست حسابی‌ای که به فکر وامی‌دارتت.مسخ رو به شدت دوست داشتم و تونستم خودم رو کنار گرگور خاک گرفته ای که تو آشغالدونی حبس شده ببینم. با هم زیر کاناپه قایم شیم، به زندگی ملال‌آور بقیه خیره بشیم و برای تفریح کنار پنجره جا خوش کنیم. ولی این بار از یاد نبریم بال هایی هم زیر پشت سختمون داریم. میتونیم به پرواز دربیایم و از این جهنم رها بشیم :)
3773434702	Όταν ο Gregor Samsa αντίκρυσε μη ανθρώπινα πόδια να ξεπροβάλουν από σώμα εντόμου, κυλώντας στο πάτωμα του δωματίου του με γδούπο ηχηρό, η λογοτεχνία γύρισε σελίδα. Η ασφάλεια του προσωπικού χώρου συνεθλίβη χωρίς τυμπανοκρουσίες: το επάνω ήρθε κάτω, το ταβάνι έγινε πάτωμα, το υπνοδωμάτιο φυλακή, και οι οικείοι ξένοι, ανθρωποφύλακες, εχθροί. Είναι αληθές ότι η «Μεταμόρφωση» της λογοτεχνίας συμβαίνει τόσο σπάνια όσο κι εκείνη ενός ανθρώπου σε έντομο. Συνέβη όμως. Έκτοτε, όλοι ζούμε στον κόσμο που έπλασε ο Κάφκα.Η εναρκτήρια παράγραφος της «Μεταμόρφωσης» καθορίζει το πλαίσιο δράσης και το αφήνει πίσω της ταυτόχρονα: ένας νέος άντρας μετατρέπεται σε έντομο, σε κάποιος είδος σκαθαριού (όχι κατσαρίδα! Ο Ναμπόκοφ στις Παραδόσεις του επιμένει σ’ αυτό). Δεν μαθαίνουμε το πώς ούτε το γιατί: δεν αφορά τον συγγραφέα, οπότε ούτε κι εμάς. Το φανταστικό δεν ενσκήπτει προσωρινά στον κόσμο μας για να αιτιολογηθεί (άρα δικαιολογηθεί) και πιθανόν να ανατραπεί στη συνέχεια, επαναφέροντάς μας σε ένα παρηγορητικό status quo ante – έχει επέλθει αναίτια για να παραμείνει εσαεί, όσο τουλάχιστον διαρκεί το μικρό σε μέγεθος έργο. Είναι μια κατάσταση πραγμάτων, οριακή μεν, ρεαλιστικά δοσμένη δε. Ως εκ τούτου, περισσότερο τρομακτική.Εν αρχή ο χώρος. Τίποτα τυχαίο σ’ αυτό το γεωμετρημένο έργο: το σπίτι είναι η σκηνή στην οποία κινούνται και πάσχουν οι πρωταγωνιστές του έργου. Δωμάτια-κλουβιά που ανοίγουν και κλείνουν, μισάνοιχτες ή σφραγισμένες πόρτες ανάλογα με τη εσωτερική δυναμική, τις συνεχώς εναλλασσόμενες σχέσεις εξουσίας, πλήρως αποκομμένα από τον έξω κόσμο που εισβάλει σπάνια με τη μορφή επισκεπτών (όπως ο προϊστάμενος ή οι ένοικοι), για να αποχωρήσουν σύντομα από τη σκηνή, αφήνοντας τους πρωταγωνιστές στους μη παγιωμένους ρόλους τους. Το ευφυώς στημένο σκηνικό εμποδίζει, πρώτιστα, παρά διευκολύνει την κίνηση. Άνθρωποι και έντομο συνωθούνται, σέρνονται, πληγώνονται, σπαράζουν μέσα στον ασφυκτικό χώρο του διαμερίσματος των Samsa – έγκλειστοι, μετατρέπονται από θύματα σε θύτες.Κεκλεισμένων των θυρών και το έντομο Gregor, έχοντας απωλέσει εκ πρώτης την ανθρώπινη μορφή του, χάνει την περίοπτη θέση του στα του οίκου: από κουβαλητής και τροφοδότης μετατρέπεται σε παρία, υποβαθμισμένος πρώτα ως προς το κοινωνικό του στάτους ως εργαζόμενος και στη συνέχεια ως στυλοβάτης της οικογένειας.Η απώλεια της ομιλίας, της επικοινωνίας, αποτελεί το πρώτο ρήγμα καθώς απανθρωποποιεί το υποκείμενο που μετατρέπεται κατ’ ουσία σε κτήνος, ακολουθώντας τη μορφική του αλλοίωση. Η διαδικασία συνεπικουρείται από τον χώρο, ο οποίος δεν διευκολύνει: πόρτες που αλλοιώνουν τον ήχο, εμποδίζουν τη φωνή. Στη συνέχεια η όραση εγκαταλείπει τον Gregor και ο χώρος συρρικνώνεται ακόμα περισσότερο. Το παράθυρο, η μοναδική του οπτική διέξοδος προς τον έξω κόσμο, έστω αποσπασματική, χάνει παντελώς τη σημασία του. Το δωμάτιο γίνεται ο κόσμος του, ενώ η οικογένειά του (και περιστασιακά μια καθαρίστρια) τα μόνα άτομα με τα οποία έρχεται σε επαφή. Η παγίδα κλείνει γύρω του ασφυκτικά.Το δωμάτιο του Gregor -εντόμου μετατρέπεται σταδιακά σε κελί. Το έντομο δεν χρειάζεται έπιπλα (η οριοθετημένη διευθέτηση του χώρου παραπέμπει στον πολιτισμό), καθώς κινείται ελεύθερα στο πάτωμα, τους τοίχους, το ταβάνι. Η τρέχουσα φύση του δεν τα χρειάζεται, πλην όμως η εναπομείνασα ισχυρή ανθρώπινη κρατιέται από αυτά ως άγκυρα. Καθόλου τυχαία επιχειρεί άκομψα, σύμφωνα με τη ζωώδη πλέον φύση του, να αγκιστρωθεί σε αυτά όσο η ολοένα και πιο εχθρική οικογένειά του παρεμβαίνει στον χώρο, επιχειρώντας να τον εκκαθαρίσει. Το καθένα μέλος διαθέτει τον προσωπικό του χώρο σε αυτό το σπίτι, πλην του έγκλειστου Gregor που δεν του παραχωρείται πλέον δικαίωμα ιδιοκτησίας ή αυτοκαθορισμού, όντας στο έλεος των εναλλασσόμενων διαθέσεων της οικογένειας.Τα μέχρι πρότινος εξαρτώμενα από εκείνον οικογενειακά μέλη, σταδιακά ανεξαρτητοποιούνται και αυτονομούνται συναισθηματικά και οικονομικά. Απολαμβάνουν νέους ρόλους, ανατρέποντας τις σχέσεις εξουσίας. Ο πατέρας, από ξεπεσμένος ηλικιωμένος, αναλαμβάνει εκ νέου τα ηνία της οικογένειας, φτάνοντας στο σημείο να χειροδικήσει στον γιο-έντομο (η σκηνή της επίθεσης με τα μήλα όπου το ένα βυθίζεται στο σώμα του Gregor και αφήνεται να κακοφορμίσει, εμπεριέχει πολλαπλές συνδηλώσεις και ερμηνείες). Η μητέρα παρακολουθεί παθητικά, αποφεύγοντας να παρέμβει. Τέλος ο ρόλος της αδελφής είναι καθοριστικός, καθώς μετατρέπεται από σύμμαχος σε ανταγωνίστρια, δεσμοφύλακα (πηγαίνει το φαγητό στον έγκλειστο, αδιαφορώντας για τις προτιμήσεις του ή την κατάσταση του «κελιού» του) και τέλος σε απροκάλυπτο εχθρό.Όσο κι αν υπολείπεται εμφανισιακά ως έντομο, ο Gregor αναπληρώνει με ενσυναίσθηση και ευαισθησία. Εξαρχής προσεκτικός να μην πανικοβάλλει ή διαταράξει την ηρεμία των οικείων του, αποκρύπτει το ειδεχθές παρουσιαστικό του από εκείνους που φροντίζει και αγαπά. Τουναντίον εκείνοι αποβάλλουν την ανθρώπινη ουσία τους και εκθέτουν σε κοινή θέα τα ειδεχθή χαρακτηριστικά τους. Όσο πιο ανθρώπινος γίνεται εκείνος τόσο πιο απάνθρωποι αυτοί, οπότε ο άνθρωπος προβάλλει συνεχώς μέσα από το σώμα του εντόμου, όπως ακριβώς τα έντομα από το σώμα των ανθρώπων. Το διαμέρισμα προσαρμόζεται στη νέα κατάσταση και μετατρέπεται σε φωλιά, με ιεραρχικές σχέσεις εξουσίας μεταξύ των κατοίκων.Ο χώρος αναδιατάσσεται εκ νέου με την εισβολή των τριών γενειοφόρων ενοικιαστών (ο Ναμπόκοφ αναφέρει το επαναλαμβανόμενο μοτίβο του 3: τρία κεφάλαια, τρείς επισκέπτες, τρία μέλη οικογένειας πλην του G.). Πρόκειται για ύποπτα υποκείμενα που καταλαμβάνουν την κρεβατοκάμαρα εκδιώκοντας τους γονείς σ’ άλλο σημείο του σπιτιού, ερήμην πάντα του Gregor που ζει αποκλεισμένος από τις αποφάσεις. Το έντομο αποτελεί αξιοθέατο, παρακολουθώντας κρυμμένο μέσα από μισάνοιχτες πόρτες τα τεκταινόμενα, όπως στη σκηνή όπου η αδελφή του παίζει βιολί για να διασκεδάσει τους τρεις ενοίκους, οι οποίοι δεν φαίνεται να το απολαμβάνουν ιδιαίτερα, σε αντίθεση με τον ίδιο τον Gregor. Οι ένοικοι απειλούν με έξοδο από το σπίτι, διεκδικώντας ισχυρή θέση εντός της οικογενειακής εστίας.Ήρθε όμως η ώρα του Gregor να αποχωρήσει από τη σκηνή. Ο ρόλος του συνεχώς συρρικνώνεται, η παρουσία του γίνεται ολοένα και πιο ισχνή, πιο αναιμική. Το δωμάτιό του πλέον έχει αλωθεί, όπως εξάλλου και η φυσική του υπόσταση: αφημένος στη μοίρα του να λιμοκτονήσει – με ένα σάπιο μήλο καρφωμένο στην πλάτη του, παράσημο της πατρικής απόρριψης, με την αγαπημένη του αδελφή να συνωμοτεί αναίσχυντα με τους γονείς για το πώς θα απαλλαγούν από το όνειδός του. Αποσύρεται στον χώρο του κι αφήνει εκεί την τελευταία του πνοή. Όχι ως ανεπίγνωστο έντομο, αλλά ως άνθρωπος: τουτέστιν επώδυνα, θλιβερά, μοναχικά, όπως ήρθε στον κόσμο.Η οικογένεια δείχνει να αναλαμβάνει δυνάμεις μετά τον θάνατο του ανεπιθύμητου γιου-εντόμου. Αποφασίζει να αλλάξει διαμέρισμα και σε μια κίνηση συμβολική εκδιώκει του απεχθείς ενοίκους. Η κλειστοφοβική ατμόσφαιρα που μέχρι πρότινος επικρατούσε δίνει σταθερά τη θέση της στο άνοιγμα, κυριολεκτικό και μεταφορικό, της οικογένειας νηπενθών. Αφότου ξεφορτώθηκαν το άχθος του γιου εορτάζουν την ελευθερία τους. Βγαίνουν από το σπίτι (για πρώτη φορά, τουλάχιστον όσο γνωρίζει ο αναγνώστης) στο ζεστό ανοιξιάτικο φως του ήλιου. Ο συγγραφέας προσφέρει στον μέχρι τούδε έγκλειστο (κι εκείνος μαζί με τους πρωταγωνιστές του έργου) αναγνώστη μια σύντομη ματιά στο έξω, στο ρεαλιστικό παρόν, αντιδιαστέλλοντάς το με το αέναο, άχρονο έσω – τη φυλακή που εκτυλίχθηκε το σύντομο δράμα δεσμωτών και φυλακισμένου.Σε μια άκρως συμβολική σκηνή, στις τελευταίες σελίδες, η κόρη-αδελφή (πλέον γυναίκα της παντρειάς), παρουσιάζεται καθ’ όλα έτοιμη να ανοίξει τα «φτερά» της, ενώ η καταληκτική πρόταση την παρουσιάζει να ανακλαδίζεται ηδονικά και νωχελικά, απολαμβάνοντας την ελευθερία της. Καμία ανακούφιση δεν προσφέρει στον αναγνώστη-θεατή ετούτη η χαρούμενη, αναζωογονητική κίνηση (που ακολουθεί τη σκυφτή, εντομοειδή κίνηση εντός της φωλιάς-οικίας), καθώς γνωρίζει ήδη το τίμημα που έχει πληρωθεί.Ο Gregor εμφανίζεται, αναγνώστη, στη ζωή σου ένα πρωϊνό -όπως όλα τα άλλα- ως έντομο, ζώντας στο ενδιάμεσο τη σύντομη και θλιβερή ζωή του, για να αποχωρήσει όμως με πλήρη συνείδηση ως ανθρώπινο όν, αφήνοντας πίσω του έναν κόσμο ακατανόητο, θαρρείς ακατοίκητο, ενίοτε απάνθρωπο. Αν όμως χρειαστεί, ακόμα και μετά το πέρας της ανάγνωσης, να αναρωτηθείς ποιος κόσμος είναι ετούτος, πού ακριβώς βρίσκεται το διαμέρισμα ή ποια μπορεί να είναι η οικογένεια, απλά κοίταξε γύρω σου.https://fotiskblog.home.blog/2021/01/...
3791241228	Según la RAE:kafkiano, na1. adj. Perteneciente o relativo a Franz Kafka, escritor checo, o a su obra. Las novelas kafkianas.2. adj. Que tiene rasgos característicos de la obra de Kafka. Una visión del mundo muy kafkiana.3. adj. Dicho de una situación: Absurda, angustiosa.El punto de partida de La metamorfosis es absurdo y angustioso (Gregorio Samsa despierta convertido en un insecto gigante) y solo por esa idea tan arriesgada y diferente ya me tenía ganado antes de comenzar.La historia, al ser muy breve, se lee enseguida mientras que como metáfora y crítica social funciona a la perfección ya que acepta múltiples interpretaciones.Me parece curioso (e incluso cruel) que la gran metamorfosis no es tanto la de Gregorio como la transformación que se produce en sus seres queridos.Si mañana amanezco convertido en un escarabajo de dos metros (ojalá no 😅) espero que mi familia no cambie más que yo... y si no fuera capaz de volver a teclear una reseña con mis nuevas patitas de insecto 😱 pues nada, que sepáis que os quiero un montón 💟.
1064014554	It was okay - strange and kind of depressing.
4934624656	A powerful novella that deals with issues of emotional bondage, authoritarianism and individual identity. The conflict between self-preservation and family bonding is captured in its full glory. Contrary to the views of many scholars I found the conduct of Gregor Samsa’s sister diabolical and selfish. In the end she abandons her brother to ensure a better more comfortable life for herself.
2659551756	¡ME ENCANTA ESTE LIBRO! Tengo tanto que decir y al mismo tiempo nada. Kafka me ha ofrecido una experiencia inolvidable. Un viaje a través de (la que yo considero) una gran metáfora, sobre la importancia que juega la familia en nuestras vidas, la manera que esta influye en nuestras elecciones laborales aunque no nos guste demasiado lo que tenemos en la mesa y como esta misma mesa puede voltear en nuestra contra cuando tomamos una decisión que no parece ser la correcta. Como ya dije, una gran metáfora con una final que me hizo rabiar y llorar por un par de horas. Quien no haya leído aún a Kafka, se está perdiendo de un grande.
5164940865	Codziennie budzę się robakiem
2339961945	علق في ذهني خلال إحدى مطالعاتي أنّ كافكا قرأ قصته السوداوية (التحول) على مسامع أصدقائه وهو يضحك ! ، لا يحتاج المرء الكثير من التفكير حتى يدرك أنّ قصته هذه كانت تمسّهُ بشكل شخصي وما كان ضحكه إلا جداراً منيعاً بناه للحول دون أي محاولة مقاربة أو إسقاط لمدلولات القصة على أحداث حياته ، حيثُ لا يخفى على قرّاء كافكا علاقته المتوترة بأبيه والتي نتج عنها صراعات نفسية وصدوعاً تركت أثرها على روح الكاتب ، أحدها والذي تُعزى إليه فكرة (التحول) هو نعته لكافكا بالـ(طُفيّلية) بسبب أسلوب حياته الذي لم يكن يُرضيه ، وهذا النعت بالطبع لم يكن ليمر على شخصية حساسة ككافكا دون أثر ، فكان نتاجه كآبة آتية من الجحيم تُدعى: غريغور سامسا . إذ استيقظ غريغور سامسا ذات صباح ، على إثر أحلام سادها الاضطراب ، وجد أنه تحول ، وهو في سريره ، إلى حشرة عملاقة .. والقصة في مختصرها هي التحول من المُعيل إلى العالة ، من الشيء إلى اللا شيء ، من عصا يُتَكَأ عليها إلى عبء وعقبة تهدد استمرار الطريق .غريغور الذي كان مكرساً جلّ وقته وحياته للنهوض بأسرته وإعالتها بعد محنة مالية ألمت بهم ، وجد نفسه في موقف صعب حين أدرك أنه تحول من مصدر أمان وهدوء إلى رعب وخوف يدب في حياتهم ويهدد سكينتها ، من نار واعدة تتجمع حولها الأسرة وتبث فيهم الدفء والآمال إلى كابوس مُجسَّد يُفضلون إقصاءه وتحاشيه ، ولم تكتفي الأسرة بنبذه بل صارت ترى فيه حِملاً ثقيلاً تقتضي الضرورة إزاحته عن كاهلها والتخلص من ركامه بأيّ شكل ...القصة في طيّاتها ونهايتها تحمل تأويلات عديدة ، ما يهمني منها هو حالة التحول التي قد تصيب أي إنسان و يخرج منها بحالة مغايرة تماماً ، و رد فعل المحيط للحالة الجديدة وطريقة تجاوبه معها ، وهي علاقة لو تعلمون خطيرة .أخيراً ، هذه القصة تعني لي الكثيرة حتى قبل قراءتها بزمن ، وما قرأتها إلا لأنني أمرُّ بفترة أعرف أنني لن أعود بعدها كما كنت ، غير ذلك أنْ أقرأ التحول لكافكا يعني أنني ردمتُ فجوة عميقة كانت تحتلُ جزءاً عظيماً وهائلاً من نفسي .
4258486442	این کتاب شامل پنج داستان کوتاهه که داستان مسخ برجسته‌ترین اون‌هاست.مسخ، در سرزمین محکومان، گزارشی به فرهنگستان، هنرمند گرسنگی، لانه.سال‌ها قبل مسخ رو خونده بودم، با ترجمه صادق هدایت. این‌بار اما با ترجمه علی اصغر حداد از نشر ماهی خوندم.اینکه من از ترجمه‌های صادق هدایت دل خوشی ندارم کلا یک بحث دیگه‌اس که اصلا واردش نمی‌شم! :))برای تک‌تک داستان‌ها اگر بخوام نقد بنویسم، کمی طولانی میشه و ممکنه حوصله‌تون رو سر ببرم.طبق عادت، بدون لو دادن داستان‌ها و بسیار خلاصه اگر بخوام بگم، داستان‌های کافکا سیاه هستن! دنیای تاریک و نمناکی دارن، به‌همراه طنزی سیاه! طنزی که شاید در خوانش اول خواننده متوجه‌اش نشه!نکته‌ی متمایز کننده‌ی کافکا نسبت به سایر نویسنده‌ها هم همینه! داستان‌هاش به ظاهر یک داستان هستن، همین! ولی در عمق وجودشون، معنایی فراتر از چند صفحه داستان کوتاه و بعضا آبکی دارن، که کشف این معنا به عهده خواننده کتاب هست!هر داستانی، هر چقدر هم سورئال، طعنه‌ای به یک اتفاق در دنیای واقعی هست که کشف این طعنه برمی‌گرده به ذهن خواننده!میشه مسخ رو خوند، فقط خوند، و داستانش رو در یک پاراگراف کوتاه بازگو کرد! همچنین میشه مسخ رو خوند و برای داستان سی - چهل صفحه‌ایش، یک کتاب دویست صفحه‌ای نقد نوشت!بگذریم.کلا کافکا مخاطب خاص خودشو می‌خواد! اما من، من حقیر، دوستش ندارم! :))نه کافکا رو، نه داستان‌هاش رو، نه دنیاش رو! :))کتاب‌هاش رو می‌خونم، حتی لذت هم می‌برم ازشون، اما در نهایت، برای من تبدیل به یک کتاب معمولی میشن در کنج قفسه‌های کتابخونه‌ام! و تقریبا محاله که برای بار دوم برم سمتشون!داستان مسخ رو هم اگر دوباره خوندم، صرفا به سفارش چندتا از دوستانم بود و البته دوس داشتم ترجمه‌ای جز صادق هدایت بخونم! :))از بعضی کتاب‌ها بد می‌گم و بعد نظر خودم رو هم بهش اضافه می‌کنم، اما کتاب‌های کافکا حقیقتا خوب هستن، فقط باب میل من و به سلیقه من نیستن. همین.توصیه می‌کنم اگر تابحال کافکا نخوندید، از همین مسخ و کتاب‌های کوچیکش شروع کنید و اگر جذب شدید کتاب‌های بزرگ‌تری ازش بخونید.در کل، دنیای کافکا برای من جذاب نیست و جذبم نمی‌کنه.البته کتاب نسبتا طولانی محاکمه رو هم ازش دارم و خواهم خوند، بعد از خوندن اون کتاب، نظر قطعی‌تری میدم!سه ستاره. کتاب بدی نبود.
2011751210	"One morning, as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams, he discovered that in bed he had been changed into a monstrous verminous bug."Franz Kafka is considered one of the greats of surrealism and existentialist literature. The dark themes of existential anxiety and alienation that come to life in his writings (sometimes in absurdist situations) are what make him one of the pillars of the modernist and post-modernist literature. The Metamorphosis chronicles the plight of one Gregor Samsa and his family, as one day he wakes up to find he has been transformed into a massive bug. This sudden change throws the lives of the entire family into turmoil.
5220346385	he’s just like me fr
